THE SYMP a 
> WITCHER?- SMe 
- A TOME OF Shinos is = 


A Celebration of the Art, Chaos, and Science of Magic = . = | 


nie 


Le 1 Talsorion 
Ae Games 


Writers 

Cody Pondsmith 
James Hutt 

Linda Evans 

Lisa Pondsmith 
Simon Goudreault 
SMiki Lorebringer 


Cover 
Kai Carpenter 


Art Direction 
Jaye Kovach 


Illustration 
Agus SW 

Alberto Bontempi 
Aleksandra Wojtas 
Alicja Kapustka 
Alicja Uzarowska 
Anna Podedworna 
Anton Nazarenko 
Araire 

Astor Alexander 
Aziel Kan 


Cast & Crew 


Bad Moon Art Studio 
Bartlomiej Gawelt 
Bogna Gawronska 
Bruno Biazotto 
Bryan Sola 

Claudio Pozas 

Cody Pondsmith 
Dendy Dhamier 
Diego de Almeida Peres 
Dolan Pondsmith 
Filipe Pagliuso 

Form Language Studio 
Grafit Studio 

Janna Sophia 

Kai Carpenter 

Karol Bem 

Katarzyna Bekus 
Kevin Zamir Goeke 
Lorenzo Mastroianni 
Maciej Laszkiewicz 
Manuel Castanon 
Marek Madej 

Matt DeMino 
Mikhail Palamarchuk 


[Ed Talsorian Games 


P.O.Box 82922, Kenmore, WA USA 98028 
The Witcher: CD PROJEKT®, The Witcher” are registered trademarks of CD PRO- 
JEKT Capital Group. The Witcher TTRPG © CD PROJEKT S.A. Developed by CD 
PROJEKT S.A. All rights reserved. The Witcher game is set in the universe created by 


Andrzej Sapkowski in his series of books. All other copyrights and trademarks are the 
property of their respective owners. 


Nemanja Stankovic 
Oleksandr Kozachenko 
Sandra Chlewinska 
Sebastian Szmyd 

Shen Fei 

Stanislav Sherbakov 
Valeriy Vegera 

Volmi Games 
Yamandu Orce 

Zuza Kapuscinska 


Layout & Design 
Cody Pondsmith 

Cris Viana 

J] Gray 


Typography 


Cris Viana 


Editing 
Carol Darnel 
Cody Pondsmith 
J Grey 

Lisa Pondsmith 
Matt Click 


Playtesters 

Aaron Burdett 

Alex Thompson 

Caitlin Murphy 

Craig “Wuruhi” Hyder 
Dagmara Bohdana Wojtczak 
Justin Bales 

Karl Warlow 

Kimberlee “Bugs” Walters 
Leon “Leothedino” Mendez 
Nicole Walters 

Paul Khalifé 

Roxanne Phan 


Special Thanks to 
Amir Ghareaghadje 

Jan Rosner 

Jason Slama 

Justyna Lemieux-Lefebvre 
Marcin Batylda 

Maxim Zimnukhov 
Patrick Mills 

Rafat Jaki 


WI111051 978-1-950911-22-6 


I ey ines 8 
Ley & LICDS coccccccccvcccvcccseereeereresereees 


Mages 10 


A Background on Mage’... 11 
Niageibifepathirrm seem ner emer tes 18 
A Little Knowledge 00... sessessescereneeee 33 


MPICSUS 3.0050 :0asdsboassscacetrairusentorse POO 
A Background on Priests 
Dana Meadbh 


EPONA! fecvsss, sates haces eone eet secon vstnetereccsereigents 


Morrigan 
INGhalemi sere ces sete ee ee 

The Prophet Lebiod a... eeseesesenee 47 
Sval blader Oe tee rece 48 
WEES) ODIO I Roa Rami, Uae eae ei ti oe evi 48 
The Priest Profession ......c.ccccccccccscsssseseeees 49 
Wine or Wisdom .ieccccccccccssssssessseseseseseeees 52 


A Background on Druids 
The Circle of Gwyn Carn 
inex Crows Clamyrs sees. s.cc sgeters aestescessts 


ny I. Cm... 
I aD eC OT L_O 
LC iC OL UU 


The Circle of Caed Myrkvid 
The Circle of Gedyneith 
Wandering Druidg................ 
The Druid Profession........... 
Forces of Nature ............ccccscecnseseceeeseserees 


The Magical Mundane............ 72 


A Background on Magical Talents........ 73 
MagicaliGiftses crrcccie cette ee 74 
MacticalgRursuitsyn cece t cee 76 


A Compilat 


Nao erS pels erate ae ots deere 81 
Priest Invocations............:escccseseescseesecseens 91 
Druid Invocations ......cccccccccccscsssssseseeees 96 
Witcher Signs 


Ritual Sitesi se sce eee cance tence 102 


Ihe Magical Marketplace..... 109 


Y 


Magic Items 
Purchasing Magic Itema...... 
Tino plies cet titans cee eee eee 


Thea Dianrl- Ante 126 
The Dark Arts.........cccsssccccrsees 


A Background on the Dark Arts......... 127 
Necromiancy: Rares. tists ter tiecc sss sc-cer 129 
IMUtatIONe, nono osen weenie reser s 134 
(COs b bere vera aii SAR ox 139 
Portrait of the Artist 0... cc ssseeeeeeeee 150 


Cadfan of Ebbing 
Dormyn of Gemmera.........ceseeeeeeeees 
Dorregaray Of Vole... seesecseseneeseeee 
Elgan of Verden............cccseseeee 
Francesca Findabaivr.................. 
Drystan of Nazaire 
Fringilla Vigo ......csessescsesseseees 
Istreddy..0¥. 208 nce ean 

Keira Metz 

Margarita Laux-Antille 
Philippa Eilhart 0... 

Sile de Tancarville «0... eee 
Stregobor of KovVir.............0000+ 
NARCHISIUS cyte se eeeeeetes deeso ne secrs toes 


Casglvddieenncs cin eee arn al er 
Corpse Amalgam 
GreatBeanrn rer. c<tsit.s..ttctercse. rolsestese 
LivingyAmm Ome. Pree ic teeta orotate 
Mari Lwyd 
POMIte Mts Be owes, fice. essai ete ecco 


210 


Components & Mutagens 


Index 211 
LTLULCA sooccvcccccccccvcccccccvccccvccseoooees 


Compiling a Tome 


“Ban Ard has proven a haven for a sorceress whos repudiated her homeland. I can argue aca- 
demic minutiae with Brandon of Oxenfurt one day, then spend the evening with cups of wine 
hearing the doings of the world as filtered through Merchant Kazmers eyes. One should never 


ignore an opportunity to learn.” 


®O@ 


You may be wondering how I, Brandon of Oxenfurt, renowned 
historian, have come to write the tome you hold in your 
hands—a tome concerning magic in all its forms, a subject 
some might consider dangerous knowledge for the average 
reader. The quest for knowledge sends one down all manner 
of dark and twisting corridors. But in the end, I have survived 
the journey and returned to bring this knowledge to you. And 
besides, a friend of mine suggested that if I didn’t write it, a sor- 
ceress might, and one can only guess how that would come out! 


One blustery day, I opened my door to find Rodolf, my old 
friend (who you may remember from our discovery and publica- 
tion of the personal journal of Erland of Larvik). He was excited 
about something but seemed hesitant to divulge it. I plied him 
with the contents of my liquor cabinet, and it loosened his tongue 
a bit. He said there was someone I should meet—someone who, 
were I to collaborate with them (as I had with him), might bring 
me fame and perhaps some money. I glimpsed one of those 
aforementioned corridors stretching out before me. 


“But you must come with me to Ban Ard,’ Rodolf said with 
his trademark grin. 


I glanced out the window with a sigh. “Can it not wait until 
Spring?” 

“No, you old fool! We must be on our way immediately.” or 
something to that effect. 


I gathered a few meager belongings and a great deal of paper, 
pens, and ink. Rodolf had brought his wagon, of course, brim- 
ming with unlikely things to sell along the way. I commented 
that he may not find much business with the bears and wolves 
who would no doubt be our primary company along the long, 
snowy road to Ban Ard. I should have been more tactful—were 
it not for the pickling salts, wolverine hides, and cooper’s ham- 
mer, ours would have been a much shorter story indeed. 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


I will leave the sordid details of our long trip for another 
time, but we did finally arrive at Ban Ard with all extremities 
intact (if slightly blue). From there, we went directly to the 
boy’s school of magic. I thought perhaps some crusty old mage 
wanted to leave a legacy of magic behind. But imagine instead 
that the person I was to meet was elven, Nilfgaardian, female, 
and a sorceress. I can’t imagine anyone I would trust less. And 
yet she didn’t have the arrogance of most elves, nor the unimag- 
inative nature of a Nilfgaardian, nor the flighty, self-indulgent 
nature of most women. And, well, you know how most sorcer- 
esses are—superior, scheming, always looking to start a con- 
spiratorial cabal, unwilling to let magic knowledge creep from 
their grasp. Thus, I was introduced to Glynnis var Treharne, a 
former director of magic at Gweison Haul. In a level way, she 
explained that, while she wished no harm on Nilfgaard, nei- 
ther could she tolerate their systems of oppression nor endorse 
their expansionist policies, fearing that victory in the North 
would not end aggression but encourage the army to seek new 
targets. Unfortunately, due to the cloistered status of mages in 
the South, Glynnis had few options in her current position, nor 
could she teach her students anything beyond the controlled 
status of magic. She felt that, were the knowledge of magic made 
more accessible, then perhaps its study might be less stringent 
in the South, and knowledge could be brought to shore up the 
weakened nations of the North. But mostly, when she spoke of 
bringing all magical knowledge, from the North and the South, 
together in one volume, I glimpsed a light in her eyes that I 
understood immediately. 


Beyond politics, Glynnis is a scholar—and I have great admi- 
ration for the difficult and dangerous path she walks. She will no 
doubt be outlawed in her homeland. I asked her why she had not 
sought out the sorceresses of the North. She said she knew them 
only by reputation. That was enough for me. 


And so, we started out on an overwhelmingly large project. 
We have tried to encompass as much verifiable magical knowl- 
edge as possible. When one of us lost faith, the other reawak- 
ened their determination. Many, many people have helped us 
through firsthand observations, or the loan of many excellent 
but forgotten tomes of magic. Read on and learn, as I did. 


-Brandon of Oxenfurt 


The Contents of the Tome 


Within the pages of A Tome of Chaos you will find many 
exciting options for the magically inclined player or the devi- 
ous Game Master. The many spells, invocations, rituals, hexes, 
alternate rules, and monsters presented in A Tome of Chaos are 
designed to work hand in hand with the material in the Witcher 
TRPG Core Book, adding both danger and excitement to your 
gameplay. Across these nine chapters, you'll find: 


Mages 


Often considered the most powerful wielders of Chaos, mages 
occupy a strange niche across the Continent, ranging from 
almost equal to the aristocracy in the North to useful tools in 
the South. We'll take a deeper look at the training of mages in 
the various regions of the Continent, how the cultures and soci- 
eties of the Continent view them, and what the future holds 
now that the North is no longer safe. Additionally, you'll find 
a whole custom Lifepath designed to emulate the long, sordid 
lives of sorcerers and sorceresses. With it, you can discover how 
your magic manifested, how your loved ones reacted, and the 
nature of your training. 


Priests 


More widely accepted by the world at large, priests often serve 
as community leaders, wielding magic bestowed on them by 
a power beyond mortal comprehension. ‘The truth of priestly 
magic may be a hot topic of debate among magical scholars— 
but the people believe it, nevertheless. We'll look at how priests 
interact with their followers, how their treatment differs from 
mages, and how their magic manifests. Additionally, we'll take 
a deeper look at the six largest religions on the Continent, along 
with eight of the less popular or prevalent religions which still 
pervade certain regions of the world. 


Druids 


Often overlooked beside the more visible mages and priests, 
druids nevertheless play a vital role in the magical landscape 
of the Continent. From their duties as keepers of balance to the 
nature of their primal magic, we'll discover what makes a druid 
tick. You'll learn about the tenuous balance of the natural and 
unnatural upon the Continent, what druids do to keep that bal- 


ance, and how the world interacts with these oft misunderstood 
shepherds. Additionally, we'll take a deeper look at the six larg- 
est druid circles on the Continent with information concerning 
their practices and culture. 


The Magical Mundane 


Below the more powerful mages, priests, and druids exist a cast of 
magical individuals ignored by magical society at large: the major- 
ity of magic users, capable of only a single magical effect. In this 
chapter you'll find rules for giving your character a magical gift. 


Magic Compiled 


A Tome of Chaos’ bread and butter is new magic for all types of 
magic users. In this chapter you'll find spells, invocations, signs, 
rituals, and hexes compiled into a comprehensive list of new 
magic from which to learn. 


Magical Marketplace 


Across the Continent, magical items are rare and often falsi- 
fied—but when you can get your hands on real magic, it can 
make a real difference. In this chapter you'll find a wealth of 
magic items, as well as runewords and magical trophies. 


The Dark Arts 


Certain magic is too dangerous to be used by any mage. These 
forbidden magics were locked away by the Council of Mages 
so that they couldn't ruin the reputation of mages and wreak 
havoc. In this chapter we'll explain the three most prevalent 
forms of forbidden magic—necromancy, goetia, and muta- 
tion—and provide rules for unleashing them upon the world. 


Magical Society 


Despite their many feuds and foibles, most mages are in some 
way bound by their connection to Chaos. This has led to a large 
and interconnected web of alliances and interactions referred 
to as Magical Society. In this chapter you'll meet a number of 
members of that magical society to acts as allies, villains, or 
mentors in your campaigns. 


Adventure 


Finally, with a host of knowledge under your belt, embark on 
an adventure to the dark depths of goetic practice. “A Binding 
Clause” is an adventure designed to be played with up to six 
players that shows the dangers of making deals with devils. 


But first, we should begin by diving into the fundamen- 
tals of magic: the crisscrossing web of dimensional intersec- 
tions that form the backbone of magic in the Continent. 


Ley Lines 


"Those not attuned to chaos are quick to label magic as t 
completely separate from the natural world and, wi 
ed. But the matter is not quite so black and white. 
on and the pathways it follows form a complicated 


brought about by magic." 


Ley Lines are invisible semi-physical pathways of magic that 
crisscross the world. Where these lines converge, the forces of 
magic are most powerful. Ancient elves built standing stones 
at these intersections, which came to be known as Places of 
Power. Though individual Ley Lines are bountiful sources of 
magic, most magic users focus entirely on Places of Power.. 
Largely, this is because tapping a Ley Line is inherently less 
controlled than using a Place of Power. A Ley Line can be 
drawn on by mages, priests, and druids alike to empower 
their magic—but if drawn on improperly or overdrawn, they 
are far more dangerous. One must also know how each ele- 
ment of magic functions to know what to expect from a Ley 
Line. Each Ley Line is linked to a specific element of magic 
and each behaves differently. 


How Do You Find Ley Lines? 


Despite being around six meters wide and spanning hun- 
dreds of miles, Ley Lines are difficult to detect due to their 
invisible, intangible state. Luckily, there are two surefire 
ways to find a Ley Line for the observant magic user. Firstly, 
a magic user can search for the Ley Line’s magical signature. 


Each Ley Line radiates a magical signature which can 
be sensed by anything that is capable of sensing magic. Any 
character attuned to magic (with a Vigor Score) gets a cramp 
in their ring finger when within 10 meters of one. If a Mage 
uses Magic Training to sense for magic within 10 meters of 
a Ley Line, they sense a great deal of magic and know the 
direction of the Ley Line. 


For the non-magically adept, there is a more mundane 
way to find Ley Lines. Each Ley Line has a minor physical 
effect on the area that it passes through. If you find an area 
with unusual rock patterns, frequent dust devils, or unnat- 
ural humidity, its likely you've stumbled across a Ley Line. 


he other.’ A force that exist. 
th its alien nature, cannot be trust- — 
Magic permeates the land we walk 
web of beauty that could only be 


—Glynnis var Treha: 


ves f Ai i I eae ae Rei 


Ley Lines and Places of Power 


All Ley Lines eventually lead to Places of Power linked to 
the element of the Ley Line. This is where two of the same 
elemental Ley Lines cross. In general, this intersection hap- 
pens at a location befitting the element of the Ley Lines: a 
river delta for water, the rim of a volcano for fire, or the top 
of a mountain for air. This being said, Ley Lines traverse the 
entire world, which means following one could lead you on 
a long and possibly epic journey. It's also important to keep 
in mind that the location of Places of Power are sometimes 
inhospitable or dangerous to humans. Luckily, Ley Lines 
are largely metaphysical and can be found and accessed at 
any altitude, even when moving toward the peak of a high 
mountain or the depths of a cavern. 


Drawing from Ley Lines 


Once a Mage, Priest, or Druid is physically touching a Ley 
Line, they can try to draw from it by taking an action. To 
do this, they must make a DC:16 Spell Casting check. If the 
magic user succeeds, they have unlocked the power of the 
Ley Line and can benefit from it as long as they are touch- 
ing it. However, they also suffer extra Overdraw and Fum- 
ble Effects as per the element of the Ley Line. If they move 
away from the Ley Line, their connection to it is severed 
and they must attempt to draw from it again when they 
come back in contact with it. If the magic user fails to draw 
from the Ley Line, they immediately suffer an elemental 
fumble of their type with no additional damage. While 
connected to a Ley Line, a Mage can only cast spells of the 
element of the Ley Line. 


Priests and Druids are able to cast their invocations 
despite not being aligned with the element of the Ley Line. 


Elemental Ley Lines 


Prevalent 
Plant Growth, 
Gnarled Trees, 

Strange Rock 
Patterns 


Frequent 
Dust Devils, 
Cirrus Clouds, 
A Smell of 
Ozone 


Withered 
Plants, Heat 
Haze, Glaring 
Sunlight 


Humidity, 
Unnatural 
Water Flow, 
Extreme Tides 


Benefit 


While casting earth magic 
at a Ley Line, anyone 
defending against your spell 
(no matter the defense) 
takes a -4 to their attempt. 


While casting air magic from 
a Ley Line, you are capable 
of casting any air spell of 
the same level as an air spell 
you already know. This 
doesn't give you knowledge 
of the spell. You do not have 
access to the spell after you 
disconnect, and you cannot 
teach another mage or 
scribe a scroll of the spell. 


While casting fire magic 
from a Ley Line, add 2 
damage dice to any damaging 
spell and raise any chance to 
inflame the spell has to 100% 


While casting water magic 

from a Ley Line, your Spell 

Casting skill is considered 
two points higher. 


Additional Penalty 


Your connection to the 
Ley Line is severed and 
the DC to connect again 
is 2 points higher. 


The spells always goes off, but 
the GM chooses a different 
air spell of the same level 
for you to cast instead. You 
still pay the stamina cost of 
the spell you initially cast. 


You must spend extra stamina 
to take another action to cast 
the same spell again at the 
same stamina cost with a 
random target. If you fumble 
that spell you just suffer the 
normal fumble effects. 


You experience vivid 
hallucinations. These 
hallucinations are controlled 
by the GM and last until 
you disconnect from the 
Ley Line and up to one 
minute after that. 


Drawing from Ley Lines as a Priest or Druid 


While casting 
magic at a Ley 
Line, increase 
your Vigor 
Threshold by 4. 


You lower your Vigor Threshold by 2 for six hours. 
If you fumble or overdraw again while connected 
to this Ley Line you take another -2 penalty to 
your Vigor Threshold cumulatively. If your Vigor 
Threshold is reduced to 0 or below, you are incapable 
of casting any magic until it rises above 0. 


Random 
Elementals 


“Traveling near to a Place 
of Power in a remote loca- 
tion can prove very dan- 
gerous. A Place of Power 
that has not been tapped 
recently may spontaneously 
summon elementals, which 
are often aggressive.” 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


Witchers & Other 
Magic Users 


Drawing power from a 
Ley Line requires a great 
deal of magical training. 
Just opening the con- 
nection can be tricky for 
most mages. A witcher or 
a magically talented per- 
son attempting to open a 
connection to a Ley Line 
would have nowhere near 
the training required to 
succeed. 


Mages 


‘Im no noble; I grew up a merchant’ daughter with a talent for Cha- 
os. Socially I've traditionally fallen somewhere between a trebuchet and a 
natural disaster. I rely upon lists to track whos who in power so the ease 
with which sorceresses negotiate Courts in the North is baffling.” 


— Glynnis var Treharne 


The lives of mages are often consumed by 
the knowledge and practice of magic. In the 
South, most mages attend Gweison Haul, the 
headquarters of magic in Nilfgaard. Some 
come of their own accord, seeking magical 
training and knowledge; others, with more 
dangerous powers, are reported to Gweison 
Haul and summoned. Most are happy to 
become a part of the magical establish- 
ment because they see it as a path to politi- 
cal power. They are tested as young as six or 
seven. After a rigorous review by Gweison 
Haul and after they have been entered into 
the records, many are simply taught how to 
control their minor abilities and sent home. 
The empire may call upon them later in life 
if their magical talent become useful, but 
largely, they are left to their own devices. 


For a person whose magical potential is 
worthy of being trained, they will be given the 
opportunity to join Gweison Haul. What they 
learn and how much they learn is decided by 
their teachers. Most receive a thorough basic 
education in magic. Some will then special- 
ize while others will continue to be trained in 
increasingly advanced magics. For students to 
go on to the highest level of training, they must 
be approved by the Directors of Magic and the 
Rector. This approval process can be long and 
bureaucratic but if approved, a mage stands to 


increase not only their magical knowledge but 
also their status in the Empire. Besides inher- 
ent ability and good school reports, approval 
also involves signs of loyalty to the Emperor 
and Nilfgaard, birth into noble families who 
support the Emperor, and willingness to be 
guided and ordered by Gweison Haul. While 
powerful Southern mages are given a great 
deal of autonomy, they are still monitored. If 
a mage with advanced magic acts against the 
best interests of Nilfgaard or Gweison Haul, 
they may be imprisoned. This is not common, 
however. Southern mages are essentially agents 
of Nilfgaard. 


In the North things are different. People 
with minor magics—healing, mending, local- 
ized weather control, animal handling—are not 
considered important. Only those with signif- 
icant magical abilities are taken into the girls’ 
school at Aretuza or the boy’s school at Ban 
Ard. Girls at Aretuza are cloistered during their 
years at school. They are taught more esoteric 
magics than the boys, as well as a large number 
of skills in order to make the young sorceress 
more beautiful and more able to influence oth- 
ers. They are taught that non-magical persons 
are below them and should not be considered 
in one’s plans. Boys, on the other hand, are not 
cloistered, and are taught more practical magics 
with an emphasis on control. 


The Imperial 
Magic Academy 


While the vast majority 
of students pass through 
Gweison Haul, the more 
prestigious children of 
the empire are sometimes 
extended the opportunity 
to study at the Imperial 
Magic Academy near Loc 
Grim. This royal acade- 
my of magic was created 
to train the highest eche- 
lon of Nilfgaard’s magical 
community. While the 
students of the Imperial 
Magic Academy are not 
as strictly controlled as 
the students of Gweison 
Haul, they study under 
the same understanding 
that their magic exists 
to benefit the Empire. In 
almost all cases, students 
who graduate from the 
Imperial Magic Acade- 
my immediately join the 
imperial military or are 
employed by their family. 


Buying Your 
Way In 


It is said that some stu- 
dents of marginal abili- 
ties from wealthy fam- 
ilies may be admitted 
to the Imperial Magic 
Academy after an appro- 
priate contribution to 
the school. 


Mage Abduction 


While the practice of kid- 
napping magically po- 
tent children ended many 
years ago, it was a very 
real issue in the early 
days of the Brotherhood 
of Sorcerers and led to a 
bad reputation for mages 
across the Continent. 


After years of training, many mages can 
profitably use their powers, and most live 
comfortable lives. Often, they are placed in 
the courts of nobles, remain at their school 
as teachers, or become experimental mages. 
Sorceresses are free to move as they wish, but 
responsibility to their school or their teach- 
ers generally drives them to find positions of 
power. Before the Northern Wars there were 
many mages working as advisors and prob- 
lem-solvers to the Northern Monarchs. In 
those days, the mages were organized into the 
Chapter and the Council, who determined 
magical policy. Unfortunately, after the coup 
at the island of Thanedd, the Chapter and 
Council dissolved and the fact that some 
Northern mages were shown to be working 
with Nilfgaard caused the Northern king- 
doms to drive most of the mages out of the 
courts. In recent years, the mage hunters of 
King Radovid of Redania have driven many 
mages to the outer lands of Kovir and Poviss. 


While many Southern mages live under 
the control of the Empire, powerful North- 
ern mages are drawn back into magical poli- 
tics as the mages seek a way to return to their 
places of power and influence. But they all 
use the same power—the energy that mages 
call upon and shape to their desires is inher- 
ent in the land. Ley Lines of magic run across 
the countryside. Places where they meet are 
especially powerful. It is not for nothing that 
many elven cities stand at the intersections of 
Ley Lines. In the South, experienced mages 
chart the strongest Ley Lines. In the North, 
mages are more often taught how to find 
Ley Lines when they wish to use them. Due 
to the less regimented nature of Northern 
mages, they sometimes draw more magic, 
or primal Chaos as it is known, than is wise; 
their magic can be greater in effect but more 
difficult to shape. This is sometimes referred 
to as Wild Magic. A powerful spell may not 
be entirely under the mage’s control and may 
rage through their body, leaving them weak- 
ened. Drawing beyond one’s capacity can 
kill. But with greater training, one can safely 
draw more energy. At the battle at Sodden 
Hill, great spells were pulled up and thrown 
at the Nilfgaardian front, bringing victory to 


the North. By contrast, while mages are no 
doubt used as agents in the South, they are 
more commonly employed as assassins and 
saboteurs than battle mages. 


—Brandon of Oxenfurt 


What is a Mage? 


A mage is someone who is born with a pow- 
erful innate ability to channel Chaos to effect 
material changes in the world around them. 
What most people think of when describing 
mages are those who have sufficient control 
over Chaos to learn the versatile applications 
known as spells. They are not the only ones 
capable of using magic; priests and druids 
do things their own way when utilizing the 
same forces, which is inherently incompre- 
hensible to the academically inclined mages. 
Additionally, there are myriad Chaos-wield- 
ers with minor talents, some are able to direct 
their magic in a narrow, specific area, while 
others can only use one or two Rituals, where 
Chaos is focused through specific instruc- 
tions. Witchers can, through their mutations 
and training, learn to use Signs, a limited and 
simple form of magic, but this does not make 
them mages. To have any hope of becoming a 
true mage, one must be born to it. 


Mages rarely know what they can do right 
from the word go; those with the potential 
come to that realization in a variety of ways. 
Some are precocious enough to understand 
that sparks from the fingertips or burying your 
family in a sinkhole is not normal; in this case, 
they may try to train themselves. This study 
rarely goes well, however, and can be devastat- 
ing, with lingering psychological effects. More 
commonly, the first magical experience is born 
out of high emotion, and the easiest and most 
powerful emotions for a child to reach for are 
negative. Anger and hatred tend to have a spe- 
cific focus, so curses are not an unusual way of 
discovering one can do magic. Even if they are 
excited at discovering the beginnings of their 
talents, it doesn't follow that their family will 
be thrilled, making estrangements the norm. 
Some trained mages, with a range of motives 
from benign to manipulative, can spot the 
potential in a Chaos-influenced child. A con- 


fused and scared family may be persuaded, bribed, or forced 
to put their offspring in the hands of someone better quali- 
fied to deal with them. 


Without formal training, mages are highly at risk of det- 
rimental effects when using their powers, so those surviv- 
ing long enough to merit the title will have undergone some 
form of training. The nature of this education varies accord- 
ing to the innate power of the subject and the environment 
in which they grow up. Some regions are highly organized 
when it comes to dealing with their young magic users, but 
outside of the Nilfgaardian Empire, a baby mage might find 
themselves learning from one of the established academies, 
taken as an apprentice, or secretly taught in a less formal 
environment. 


The Isle of Thanedd in Temeria is home to Aretuza, an 
academy of magic attended by daughters of some of the 
most prestigious families in the North, though they accept 
girls from anywhere in the world with the right potential. 
Thanedd is an isolated rock, which has been sculpted over 
the centuries into terraces and soaring towers, forming 
a series of distinct structures. Garstang is a palace used to 


—— 


=< 


host gatherings of honored guests from the magical commu- 
nity and visiting alumni of the academy. Its walls have been 
infused with a powerful aura that blocks the effects of magic. 
The academy proper stands adjacent to Garstang, and below 
both is Loxia. This palace guards the bridge to the mainland 
and is the only place visitors and students may mix, as out- 
siders are banned from entering the school and the students 
cannot leave. Thanedd is accessed by one of two means: the 
bridge to the mainland, or via secret sea caves allowing boats 
to land inside the hollow mountain. 


Aretuza has a strong academic focus and a traditional 
private school structure, with fees standing at 1,200 
crowns per year and an atmosphere somewhere between 
a dedicated university and a girls’ finishing school. Study 
is intense and girls develop a firm grounding in both the 
theory and practice of magic as a science first, art second, 
with little romanticism around the subject. Nor is magic 
the only lesson, as they expect students to learn in detail 
the history and politics of the world in which they will 
function. Once they have joined, adepts cannot leave the 
school until graduation without facing punishment. This, 
coupled with the high costs, means that girls studying 
there tend to remain, retaking classes until they graduate 


Tuition 


“It baffles the mind that 
anyone should have to 
spend thousands of flo- 
rens to attain a magical 
education. Brandon tells 
me that this fee can be 
waived if a girl shows 
proper potential but still 
the concept is troubling. 
Regardless of potential, 
magic can be dangerous 
if untrained.” 

—Glynnis var Treharne 


Agent of the 
State 


In the years before the 
Winter War, the Kaed- 
weni Secret Service was 
known for commonly 
employing drop outs 
from Ban Ard. These 
partially trained mages 
could be turned into “su- 
per human” agents of the 
state. Now, with Redania 
storming across their bor- 
der, that recruitment has 
expanded even further. 


Nilfgaardian 
Reeducation 


Contrary to popular 
northern belief, teach- 
ers at Gweison Haul do 
not employ mind-con- 
trolling magics or devi- 
ous alchemical elixirs to 
“reeducate” mages who 
have acted against the 
Empire. 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


as fully trained mages. Those few who drop 
out go on to parlay their training in social 
manipulation to win influential roles usually 
denied to women in the world at large, such 
as becoming lawyer. 


Isolating the students for their entire educa- 
tion promotes a hothouse atmosphere, but also 
makes interpersonal politics a survival skill. 
Aretuza students are magically sterilized to 
avoid the unpredictable effects of giving birth 
to potentially unstable children. This redirects 
their energies toward success and personal 
power and makes strategic alliances more 
common than trust. The only external con- 
tact they are permitted is in Loxia, where they 
can meet and mix with visitors and dignitaries 
under strictly controlled conditions. Here they 
practice their social skills and see the practical 
results of political interactions they have stud- 
ied. Graduates of Aretuza frequently attain 
influential positions as the—sometimes lit- 
eral—power behind the throne. Their magical 
acumen does not protect them from a world 
that, at best, distrusts mages so some turn to 
mundane protectors, seeking to influence mat- 
ters through wit and charm while maintaining 
a certain aloof, determined superiority. 


Ban Ard 


The Academy of Ban Ard resides in the city 
of the same name, in the kingdom of Kaed- 
wen. While not controlled by Kaedwen, Ban 
Ard is influenced by the uncouth energy and 
strength of personality of the nation constantly 
in conflict with both its neighbors and its less 
than hospitable climate. Unlike Aretuza or 
Gweison Haul, the exclusively male students of 
Ban Ard are not sequestered from the outside 
world. The Academy stands just outside the 
city proper, an imposing, stone-built structure 
and it is far from unusual for students to take 
themselves around town. Older boys find great 
amusement in drinking, socializing, and tak- 
ing in all the sights and pleasures that the city 
can offer a young man of means; High fees and 
a preference for boys of noble families makes 
for classes full of the sons of the wealthy. This 
“boys will be boys” attitude encourages a lack 
of discipline to a point, although students can 


face expulsion if they commit certain offenses. 
Petty theft, for example, is looked upon far 
more severely than outraging public decency 
after successful exams. 


In keeping with the feel of the region, Ban 
Ard students are positively encouraged to train 
their combative and militaristic sides along 
with their magical talent. Advanced students 
may take time to engage in monster hunts or 
even mercenary contracts to develop their 
skills. Such activities take place under the aus- 
pices of the Academy, as internships, so the 
students can expect to see the school take a cut 
of any fees they receive. This adds up to a lack 
of focus on magic in day-to-day studies. Aca- 
demic topics are important but the boys in Ban 
Ard do not have that constant pressure that 
drives the girls studying in Aretuza. Indeed, 
there are regular contests between the schools 
and Aretuza consistently dominates. One the- 
ory is that the Ban Ard students’ ambition 
exceeds their grasp, and they overreach them- 
selves, whereas Aretuza’s better understand 
their own capabilities, what is possible, and 
back this up with focused academic training in 
magical theory. 


The lack of pressure may have some- 
thing to do with the higher rate of Ban Ard 
students failing to complete their studies, 
though it may also have something to do with 
the relative opportunities afforded children. 
Academic success is often key for women to 
achieve rank and status in their own right, 
whereas boys who only partially complete 
their studies can still find a range of opportu- 
nities across the board. Even a poorly trained 
sorcerer may find success in a mundane occu- 
pation, for example, and charge a premium 
for their services, where they are not expected 
to face fully trained mages. In addition to 
their classes, Ban Ard houses clubs and secret 
societies where the wealthy boys can make 
connections that may prove profitable long 
after they leave the school. 


Gweison Haul 


The Nilfgaardian Empire takes a different 
approach to mages than the Northern King- 
doms. It is deemed a civic duty for anyone 


with magical potential to be trained, whether that is by 
a mentor or at the school of Gweison Haul. Once simply 
the state magic school of Vicovaro, Gweison Haul now 
stands as a complex devoted to training the mages of the 
Empire. The school was built up over the years as Nilfgaard 
conquered territories and shipped the remains of enemy 
Mage’s laboratories and studies back from the front. This 
has lead to the architecture and furnishings of the school 
being somewhat eclectic. This sets the tone for the way 
students from across the Empire are treated. Students of 
Gweison Haul may come from any of the imperial nations, 
even the heart of the Empire, and they arrive at the school 
with attitudes as widely spread as their origins. Rebellious 
Northerners and loyal subjects are all treated with the same 
heavy hand once they enter the school. While it is never 
directly stated, every trainee mage has it impressed upon 
them that they are tools of the Empire. Teachers often dis- 
courage unconventional thinking and common areas are 
under magical surveillance. The penalties for breaking the 
rules can be harsh and the school houses a platoon of Mage 
Hunters, who are empowered to deal with rebellions and 
threats to the faculty as they deem necessary. These Mage 
Hunters carry dimeritium shackles and regularly patrol 
the halls. These shackles are rarely used but their presence 


instills a certain resistance to the alloys effects in much of 
the student body. 


Despite these somewhat authoritarian practices, stu- 
dents of Gweison Haul are well taken care of and often 
excel in their studies. The school maintains a well-stocked, 
strictly curated library, and students are allowed to roam 
the halls and courtyards of the campus when not attend- 
ing classes. The rigidly structured lifestyle of Gweison Haul 
combined with the ever present expectations of the Empire 
can lead to fast friendships among students seeking trust- 
worthy confidants with whom to share their concerns and 
fears. Education is thoroughly standardized in Gweison 
Haul, putting little value on an individual’s feelings or opin- 
ions. Once students graduate, they are assigned a value 
based on their skill which informs how easily they can find 
employment and what that employment might entail. 


Recently, rumors have come out that deep within the 
catacombs of Gweison Haul, curious students have found 
secrets dating from before the Usurpator’s reign. There 
are untold secrets to be found in dusty corners, hidden 
away from the world. Ancient tomes, records of audacious 
research, and long-forgotten scrolls of lore missed by the 
prying eyes of the Empire. 


A little over a century 
ago, before the empire 
was as regimented as it 
is now, I studied magic 
under my father. He 
wasnt a powerful mage, 
but he was well-versed in 
the science of magic and 
there were no sages where 
we lived under whom I 
could apprentice. 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


Magic-inclined children of nobility and wealth 
need not learn amongst the commoners of the 
Empire in Gweison Haul; in return for a substan- 
tial annual fee, these young minds are sent to the 
Imperial Magic Academy. This highly defensible, 
secure castle on the banks of Loc Grim is staffed 
by the most prestigious mages in all of Nilfgaard 
and protected by veterans of the Imperial Army. 


The academy is just as focused on loyalty 
and service to the Empire as Gweison Haul, but 
the students are afforded greater luxuries. Each 
student receives a lavish personal room and the 
school is staffed by servants who are at the stu- 
dents beck and call. During holidays the acad- 
emy hosts feasts and celebrations on par with 


those of the capital. Upon their graduation, 
students usually take up positions of service 
with their families or as adjutants in the armed 
forces, acting as advisors and organizing the 
most effective deployment of mages. 


Not every mage can or wishes to study in 
one of the official schools. Ban Ard and Are- 
tuza in the Northern Kingdoms are expensive 
and thus exclusive; though allowances can be 
made for particularly talented students, the 
wealthy generally do not wish to rub shoul- 
ders with the magically-inclined children of 
shepherds. In Nilfgaard the problem is less 
one of cost and more regarding the distance 
to Gweison Haul or the strict regulations of 
the school. Meanwhile, in the elderlands, they 
have always practiced a less rigid structure 
when it comes to educating their magic users. 


Some magic training can literally start at 
home, with parents or friends of the family 
who have some skill and knowledge. Magic 
users who have children sometimes pass on 
their gift and these children must receive the 
proper training or risk horrible side effects. 
Alternatively, gifted children may be picked 
out by traveling mages to be their appren- 
tice. Currently, the North holds a deep mis- 
trust of mages as a whole, so someone taking 
it upon themselves to educate a gifted child 
would certainly wish to do so quietly. In Nil- 
fgaard, most mages attend Gweison Haul but 
apprenticeship is still considered better than 
no training at all. Said student might, how- 
ever, be considered less qualified than a mage 
trained at an academy. 


Elderfolk mage training has traditionally 
happened under mentors, with a one-to-one 
relationship where a student might seek out 
a teacher to study under, or a teacher see the 
potential in a child and take responsibility 
for their training. One tool that can be used 
by any teaching mage, independently or in 
a school environment, is the apprenticeship. 
In this relationship, the student is leashed 
to their master, and their magic is linked. 
This can be positive, imposing a more mea- 
sured pace to learning on an impulsive and 


reckless student but might also be coercive and used as a 
means of control to dominate young mages. 


An alternative is that some mages may run classes for 
those magic-rich and gold-poor. Parents who cannot handle 
their children’s power may give them over to such teachers, 
and it is unlikely that they would often return once their 
studies are complete. These classes are normally poorly 
equipped, lacking the resources of the mainstream schools 
but can still provide effective training in a less formal and 
more flexible environment. 


The mage providing the teaching sets the tone and may 
be doing so out of the goodness of their heart, for a humble 
living, or for other, darker reasons. A mage may well see the 
potential in educating a class from an impressionable age, 
to be loyal to them out of fear for how the world at large 
may treat them, with this being particularly strong if they 
have been rejected by their blood relatives. 


Ar 
AA 


Prior to the First Northern War, mages and mundane rul- 
ers often held themselves broadly separate, with kings claim- 
ing no dominion over mages’ studies and mages likewise 
interfering little in matters of state. The pact that cemented 
this distinction was called the Novigrad Union and, while 
there were numerous blurrings of the line between the 
mages’ academia and leadership, each side was content to 
keep to their own spheres of influence. This perceived neu- 
trality allowed mages to be regarded as impartial mediators, 
having no inherent loyalty to either side in a dispute as they 
were independent irrespective of the outcome. As such, they 
were no threat to the ruling classes and were free to organize 
themselves to better further their research. 


The oldest organizational body was the Brotherhood of 
Sorcerers, formed from the co-operation of the preeminent 
mages of the time. This was born after a brief period of 
internecine warfare that cleared the board of many inde- 
pendent individuals resistant to the formalization of rules 
and regulations that governed practitioners. Later, the lead- 
ership of the Brotherhood split into two governing bodies, 
the Chapter of the Gift and the Art and the Supreme Coun- 
cil of Sorcerers, who had the responsibility of policing and 
enforcing standards. Despite these bodies, though, most 
mages were still involved in pure research and experimen- 
tation, holding themselves above the pettiness of the mun- 
dane world. 


During the First Northern War, though, this detachment 
was abandoned when Northern mages stood with their 
nations in the Second Battle of Sodden, turning the tide of 
the invasion. After this intervention, mages were courted 


by rulers and adopted as valued and dangerous counselors, 
court diviners, and healers. Most mages still preferred to 
stick to their studies, but more and more began to dabble 
in politics as the newfound respect went to their heads. This 
culminated in the Thanedd Coup, a planned rebellion by 
mages in league with Nilfgaard and the Scoia'tael anticipated 
by mages still loyal to Northern kings. This brutal battle saw 
the end of the Supreme Council, the Conclave, and the trust 
rulers placed in their court mages, as the shocking news of 
the Nilfgaardian sympathizers treachery emerged. 


In the wake of the Thanedd Coup, the women-only Lodge 
of Sorceresses was established, comprised of both Northern 
and Nilfgaardian mages and geared toward establishing 
political power. Today mages are alternately hated, feared, 
and seen as both useful but also untrustworthy. Many faiths 
preach that they participate in dark magic and the populace 
is as keen to turn on them as they are on non-humans, in 
some kingdoms. With their organizational structures largely 
gone, it falls to mages to police themselves against forbid- 
den arts such as necromancy. Some still endeavor to pursue 
research while others seek political power both for its own 
sake and as a shield against the scapegoating that has seen 
mages burned at the stake in the North by Witch Hunters. 


Mage Lifepath 


The life of a mage is long and often filled with the kinds of 
opportunities and dangers that would never even occur to 
the average craftsman or merchant. Training in a school 
of magic can be grueling and oppressive, cutthroat and 
duplicitous, or raucous and chaotic. The forces of Chaos 
swirl around sorcerers and sorceresses almost constantly, 
and the drive to expand one’s power can lead to terrible 
losses and triumphant victories. And once a mage leaves 


Where Were You Born? 


the hallowed halls of their alma mater, they are sent into 
a world that will likely come to revere and hate them in 
equal measure. For most mages, every movement is cal- 
culated, every word is weighed, and every risk is assessed. 
To replicate this life of difficulties, when creating a Mage 
character, you can roll on this Mage Lifepath rather than 
rolling on the standard Lifepath in the Core Rulebook. 


ee The Northern Realms (Kovir & Poviss or The Hengfors League) 


The Northern Realms (Redania or Kaedwen) 


The Northern Realms (Aedirn, Lyria & Rivia, or Temeria) 


Pe Nila Gite angen ora 


Nilfgaard (Gheso, Ebbing, or Maecht) 


Nilfgaard (Etolia, Gemmera, or Vicovaro) 


An Elven, Gnomish, Vran, or 
Werebbub mage can choose 
to have been born in the 
elderland of Dol Blathanna 
or a mountain conclave. 


10 | Nilfgaard (The Heart of Nilfgaard) 


Who Was Your Family? 


| Roll | Family Size Family Personality Family Status 


Boos 


Po 
a a 
aoa 
Py 


How Did You Discover Your Magic? 


Catastrophe 
(Subtract 3 from your next Lifepath roll) 
The discovery of your magic was tied to an unfortunate catastrophe when you were young. One 
day, unaware of your connection to Chaos, you let your emotions get the better of you. You 
may have burned your parents alive, triggered a cave-in, or frozen another child solid. 


Accidental Curse 
(Subtract 2 from your next Lifepath roll) 
The discovery of your magic was tied to a powerful hatred. Without really planning 
on it, you lashed out at someone in your early childhood and cursed them. A witcher 
may have lifted the curse—or maybe it still plagues them to this day. 


Discovered by a Mage 
When you were young, a mage came to your home and spoke with your parents privately. They explained to 
your parents that you had a magical gift and without proper training you would become a danger to everyone. 


Inspired by a Mage 
One day you were treated to a demonstration by a traveling mage who showed you the wonders 
of magic. After the mage’s demonstration, you tried to copy them and found that you had 
a gift. Your inspiration to study magic was all according to the plans of the mage. 


Terrifying Magical Development 
Your magic developed in the form of a small magical trait and expanded from there. One day 
you performed a small magical effect while playing and the event scared the hell out of you. 


You had no idea how it happened or what might happen if you tried to do it again. 


Joyous Magical Development 
Your magic developed in the form of a small magical trait and expanded from there. One day you figured 
out how to perform a small magical effect and you quickly showed it off to your family and friends. 


Press-ganged by a Mage 
A traveling mage saw potential in you and decided it was their duty to take you away 
to train. They may have intimidated your family into giving you over, or they may have 
directly stolen you. But in the end, you were taken to train against your will. 


Bought by a Mage 
A traveling mage saw your potential while passing through your hometown and made 
an offer to your parents. You may not even know how much you were worth to your 
parents, but a price was agreed upon and you were taken away by the mage. 


Grudge-born Curse 
(Subtract 2 from your next Lifepath roll) 
Your gift became apparent when you cursed someone in your hometown. A grudge you 
held against this person grew and festered just below the surface until it eventually became 
powerful enough to draw magic from the beyond and formed a terrible curse. 


Catastrophe 
(Subtract 3 from your next Lifepath roll) 
You learned you had magical capability at a young age but kept it hidden and tried to study 
on your own. Inevitably this backfired. You may have set fire to your family home, caused a 
flood, or summoned a dangerous storm. Either way, everything came crashing down. 


Attendance of 
the Imperial 
Magic Academy 


For the purposes of this 


Lifepath, attendance 
to Gweison Haul is the 
same as _ attendance 


to the Imperial Magic 
Academy. 


Far From Home 


The guidelines of what 
school your character 
attended are just that, 
guidelines. A mage born 
in Nilfgaard may have 
been spirited away to 
Aretuza or Ban Ard when 
their talent was discov- 
ered and it’s equally likely 
that a magically gifted 
child in the Northern 
Realms may have been 
rounded up and sent 
to Gweison Haul when 
their village was raided 
during one of the North- 
ern Wars. Lore-wise, the 
only hard guideline is the 
strictly gendered nature 
of mages in the North- 
ern Realms. That being 
said, if you want to break 
that “rule” you're free to. 
There could be special 
situations that led to a 
male mage being trained 
in Aretuza or a female 
mage being trained in 
Ban Ard. This is the case 
for Bronwyn Deadeye 
(see pg. 155) who was as- 
signed male at birth and 
attended the Ban Ard 
Academy and then tran- 
sitioned afterwards using 
magic and alchemy. 


How Did People React to Your Magic? 


The Elderlands Nilfgaard 


: Your family became 
Your family cast you out. eels owen array. Your family cast you out. 


Your family became ily tri Your family sent you 


Your family tried to 
terribly scared of you. ignore your gift. to the church. 


Your family tried to 
sell you to a family 
of high standing. 


Your family sent you 
to train immediately. 


Your family immediately 
sent you to Gweison Haul. 


Your family immediately 
sent you to Aretuza you to study magic 
or Ban Ard. and get into politics. 


Your family tried to Your family pushed you Your family tried to use 
ignore your gift. to become a great mage. | your power for themselves. 
Your family and friends Your family and friends 
celebrated your talent. celebrated your talent. 


What School Did You Attend? 


Nilfgaard Gweison Haul or the Gweison Haul or the 
Imperial Magic Academy Imperial Magic Academy 


Minor Academia 
Minor Academia represents the many unaffiliated mages across the Continent who take gifted 
children as apprentices. Often times, these mentors are not officially recognized by the Conclave 
of Mages. Generally, in the Elderlands, Elderfolk do not attend an official school and instead 
train with elder mages in their own society. No matter where you come from you can choose to 
have had your training in Minor Academia. 


Your siblings and friends Your family pushed 


became horribly jealous. 


Your family and friends 
celebrated your talent. 


Aretuza 
Wellspring 


By spending 10 extra 
STA on your turn, 
you can raise your 
Vigor Threshold by 
2 for the duration 

of that turn. This 


increase does stack 
with Focus Items. 


Ban Ard 
Controlled 
Collateral 
When you suffer 
a Magical Fumble 
you can sacrifice 10 
STA to lower the 
amount fumbled by 
5 (minimum 1). 


Gweison Haul 
Tolerance 
When coming 
in contact with 
dimeritium, you can 
spend 10 STA to give 
yourself a +3 to your 
Endurance check to 
resist the effects. 


Minor Academia 
Versatile Caster 
By spending 10 
extra STA when you 
cast a spell, you can 
either add +4m of 
range to a spell, +2 
Rounds of duration 
to a Non-Active. 


Life in Academia 


No matter what school you attended, every mage goes 
through roughly 20 years of magical training. During this 
time, they learn how to control their gift, study the science of 
magic, and familiarize themselves with the process of wield- 


Spell Backfired 
A spell you cast backfired 
horribly. You lower your 
Vigor Threshold by 1. 


Developed a Bond with 
Another Student 
You and another student 
spent time together 
to unwind. You gain a 
Mage Ally. Roll on the 
Ally table on pg. 30 to 
see how close you are 
and what their value is. 


Got a Rival Expelled 
You got a rival of yours 
expelled from Aretuza. 

You gain a Mage Enemy. 
Roll on the Grudges 
table on pg. 28 to see 
how it’s escalated and 
what their power is. 


Teacher’s Pet 
You got preferential 
treatment from a teacher. 
Start with an extra 
known Novice spell. 


Impressed a Foreign 
Dignitary 
You start with +2 
Reputation at the 
court of one kingdom 
of your choice. 


Rott 


Spell Backfired 
A spell you cast backfired 
horribly. You lower your 
Vigor Threshold by 1. 


Caught Smuggling 
You smuggled tomes out 
of the school and were 
caught. You were made an 
apprentice (see pg. 23). 


Stole a Spell Scroll 
Start with a journeyman 
spell scroll. Work with 
the GM to determine 
which spell. 


Helped with 
Unsanctioned Research 
Roll once on the 
Knowledge table on pg. 
31. If knowledge of this 
research comes out, you 
will be in major trouble 
with Ban Ard Alumni. 


Hunted a Monster 
You went out to hunt 
a monster in the dense 
forests of Kaedwen. 
Gain +1 to Monster Lore. 


Spell Backfired 
A spell you cast backfired 
horribly. You lower your 
Vigor Threshold by 1. 


Rule-Breaker 
You broke one of the 
many rules of Gweison 
Haul but were caught 
in the process. 
You were made an 
apprentice (see pg. 23). 


Helped Develop 
Weapons of War 
for the Empire 
Start with 1 bomb 
formula. Work with 
the GM to determine 
which bomb. 


Law Bringer 
You helped the 
authorities with a 
magic related crime. 
Gain a +2 Reputation 
with Nilfgaardian 
authorities. 


Explored the Catacombs 
You found a scroll in the 
catacombs of the school. 
Gain 1 journeyman spell 
scroll. Work with the GM 
to determine which spell. 


ing Chaos. For many mages, these formative years are full 
of exciting incidents and “character-building” moments. For 
each of the two decades, you must roll 1d10 on the column 
of the table that corresponds to your School. 


Spell Backfired 
A spell you cast backfired 
horribly. You lower your 
Vigor Threshold by 1. 


Dabbled in Dark Magic 
You have dabbled in 
Dark Magic and 
unleashed a demon on 
the world. You bear 
the demon’s lucifuge 
and they always know 
where you are. 


Witcher Target 
Your unsupervised use 
of magic caused enough 
damage that a Cat school 
witcher was hired to 
kill you. This witcher is 
still looking for you. 


Apothecary 
Part of your learning 
involved being able 
to diagnose and cure 
ailments for the people 
of your community. 
Gain a +2 to First Aid. 


Botanist 
You tended to your 
school’s garden. Gain +2 
to Wilderness Survival. 


Stole Ritual Components 
You squirreled away tiny 
bits of rare ritual 
components. 

Start with an extra 100 
crowns of components. 


Found Blackmail 
Material on a Teacher 
You can use this 
information to force a 
single favor out of them 
at the GM’s discretion. 


Found Clues on the 
Location of a Relic 
Consult with the GM to 
determine which Relic 
and what you know. 


You Were Sent 
into the World 
You were leashed to a 
mage living outside of 
Aretuza. Roll a regular 
life event from the table 
on pg. 31 of the Core 
Book. You were made an 
apprentice (see pg. 23). 


Cursed 
You were cursed, either by 
your own hand or the ire 
of another at your school. 
Work with the GM to 
pick an appropriate curse 
from the ones listed on 
pg. 230 of the Core Book. 


: 


Miscast 
You accidentally cast 
magic on a school 
member or faculty 
and ruined their day. 
Roll on the Grudges 
table on pg. 28. 


Mercenary Work 
You fought for a minor 
noble in a land dispute. 

You kept part of your 
pay, after the school 
took its cut of course. 
Gain 1d6 x 100 
crowns. 


Cursed 
You were cursed, either by 
your own hand or the ire 
of another at your school. 
Work with the GM to 
pick an appropriate curse 
from the ones listed on 
pg. 230 of the Core Book. 


Secret Society Initiation 
You were inducted into 
a secret society within 
the school. Gain +2 
Reputation with the other 
alumni of Ban Ard. 


Translated a Tome 
You helped translate an 
old elven tome. You gain 
+2 to Elder Speech. 


Censorship 
You were asked to find 
and erase all traces 
of a banned work. Its 
author is now out for 
revenge. Roll on the 
Grudges table on pg. 28 
to determine who it is. 


Helped hunt down 
a Renegade Mage 
You helped the Mage 
Hunters bring in a rogue 
mage. Gain +1 in any 
combat skill or start a 
new combat skill at +2. 


Harbored a 
Renegade Mage 
You helped shelter a 
rogue mage. You gain a 
Mage Ally. Roll on the 
Ally table on pg. 30 to 
see how close you are 
and what their value is. 


Church Liaison 
You were sent to help 
the Church of the Great 


Sun with magical matters. 


You gain a +1 to 
Charisma, and 
Social Etiquette. 


Better Part of Valor 
You were trained in the 
basis of spy work. You 
gain a +1 to Disguise and 
can attempt to disguise 
yourself without a 
disguise kit at no penalty. 


Helped Locals with 
Various Issues 
You have used your magic 
to aid a region in need. 
Your Social Standing 
is Equal in this area. 
Work with the GM to 
determine where this is. 


Cursed 
You were cursed, either by 
your own hand or the ire 
of another at your school. 
Work with the GM to 
pick an appropriate curse 
from the ones listed on 
pg. 230 of the Core book. 


Defended a Village 
from a Monster 
You used your magic to 
repel a monster attack 
from a village. 
Gain +1 to Monster Lore. 


Extracurricular Learning 
You studied under many 
mentors, learning as 
much as you could. Start 
with an extra Novice spell. 


Crafted your Own Focus 
You built your first 
focus item. You gain an 
Amulet which counts as 
a Focus (2) item for you. 


Were You an Apprentice? 


Among mages, the practice of taking an apprentice is common, though its prevalence varies based peosting 

on the school of magic. Young mages are made apprentices of more experienced mages, allowing Mechanically, leashing a 
the elder mage to guide their pupil. In some cases, this goes so far as to “Leash” the pupil to their mage to a mentor binds 
master, binding the two mages’ magic together so the pupil can better learn. In theory, this rela- the two mages’ magic 
tionship allows an inexperienced or reckless mage to learn control and skill at the side of their together. When within 


10m of each other, both 
mages can use any spell, 
ritual, or hex collective- 
ly known. Additionally, 
the mentor can, without 

the amount of stamina 
their apprentice can use 
to cast magic per turn, 
setting a cap that the ap- 
prentice cannot surpass. 
Finally, if the apprentice 
fumbles a Spell Casting, 
Ritual Crafting, or Hex 
Weaving roll, the mentor 
can choose to take half of 
the damage the appren- 
tice would suffer from 


What Was Your Mentor Like? the fumble. Once two 


mages are leashed, only 


this bond. Otherwise, 
of them dies. 


mentor so they will be better prepared to operate independently. In practice, reckless mages are 
often made apprentices to elder mages to keep an eye on them until they learn to act with respect 
and follow the rules. 


ee 
Pet Doe are ey 
LA Li cag. cai 
[oo keen on oats ete eee 


"T have had the honor of being the mentor of a few young mages in my lifetime and 
I have always found the experience to be a pleasant one. That's not to say I haven't 
had my fair share of troublemakers leashed to me to temper their disruptive tender: 
cies. But I haven't met a student yet that I couldn't teach." 

—Glynnis var Treh 


Journeyman 
Mages 


Its not uncommon for 
mages in the North to 
make their way in the 
world as an independent 
journeyman. These ma- 
gicians, known as Dwim- 
veandra if female, roam 
the Continent, taking 
odd jobs and studying 
under other mages they 
encounter until they have 
gathered enough knowl- 
edge and skill to return to 
their academy and apply 
to become a Master or 
Mistress. In earlier days, 
the Chapter even provid- 
ed a special scholarship 
fund to pay for these stu- 
dents’ travels. 


Life in Nilfgaard 


While mages in Nil- 
fgaard are more con- 
trolled than they are in 
the North a clever mage 
can still learn to subtly 
manipulate things to get 
themselves where they 
want to be. They could 
volunteer to perform spe- 
cific experiments for the 
betterment of the Empire 
or work closely with the 
aristocracy to get a foot- 
hold in politics. 


What Was Your Mentor’s Teaching Style? 


— Or 
a 


Demonstrating 


aot 


Manipulative 


What Was Your Most Memorable Moment with Your Mentor? 


You shared a touching moment 
They used you to achieve a goal 


They abused you in some way 


They risked their life to help you 


| Roll 
a 
ena 
ae 
ia 
10 


They saved your life 


How Did You End Things with Your Mentor? 


| Rott | 
a 
eee 
ese 
Eee 
10 | 


an oa rar 


Once out of schooling and no longer leashed to another mage, it is largely up to each mage to 
make their way in the world. Depending on where the mage operates this may take many different 
forms. A mage may choose to get into politics and attempt to become an advisor to a powerful 
noble. They may pour their focus into experimentation, ethical or otherwise, to try and discover 
new theories and practices or improve old ones. Or they may choose to continue their magical 
study, attempting to ferret out the answers to long held questions of Chaos. No matter what path 
a mage chooses to pursue their profession ensures that there will always be a shadow of danger, 
even if they choose to live a cautious life. 


Upon graduating your magical training, you are somewhere between 20 and 29. Next you'll 
have to choose how old you are when your game begins. Currently, the oldest recorded mage is 
Gerhart of Aelle who was somewhere around 491 when he died of coronary failure at the Thanedd 
Coup in 1267. Mages are generally not considered “adults” by other mages until they have several 
decades under their belt and even mages in their 80s and 90s are considered “young” 


Once you've decided how old you are, look at the following table. For each decade after your 
20’s decide how you chose to spend the majority of that decade. First, roll on the Danger row and 
consult the appropriate column. If you rolled the number presented or lower, something went 
wrong. Immediately go to the Danger Table on Pg. 26 and roll on the appropriate column to deter- 
mine what happened. Regardless of whether you have to roll for a Danger, then roll on the Events 
section of the first table to see what went right then roll on the corresponding Event table. Follow 
this process once for each decade after 20. 


Time Cautious Politicking Experimentation Magical Study 
Danger 20% 50% 70% 50% 
Events 1 Benefit 1-2 Benefit 1-3 Benefit 1-5 Benefit 

2 Ally a7 Ally 4 Ally 6-7 Ally 
3 Knowledge 8 | Knowledge | 5-10 | Knowledge | 8 | Knowledge 
4-10 | Nothing | 9-10} Nothing xX Nothing | 9-10 | Nothing 


For example, a young 
sorcerer has just gradu- 
ated from Ban Ard and 
finished their appren- 
ticeship. At the start of 
their Lifepath they are 
23. From the years of 23 
to 33, they decide that 
they spent their time pol- 
iticking, so they roll per- 
centiles on the Danger 
rating for Politicking. 
They roll a 36 which is 
well within the 50% dan- 
ger rating of Politicking. 
So before rolling to see 
if something went their 
way, they go to the Dan- 
ger table on pg. 26 and 
roll 1d10 on the Politick- 
ing column. Their result 
is 9 meaning something 
they did netted them a 
rival. After rolling on the 
corresponding Grudges 
table to flesh out their 
rival, they roll 1d10 on 
the Events column for 
Politicking. They get a 
2 meaning they got a 
benefit. Going down to 
the benefits table on pg. 
29, they roll a 7 on 1d10 
meaning they found a 
portal. It could be that 
they went on an expe- 
dition to find this por- 
tal and beat out anoth- 
er mage, gaining some 
knowledge or fame that 
made the other mage 
deeply jealous. Either 
way, this sums up the 
major events of their 20s 
and now it’s time to make 
their choice for the years 
33 to 43. 


Danger 


Debt 
You fell 1d10 x 100 
Crowns in debt. 


Addiction 
You developed an 


addiction to something. 


You can pick your 
poison. See Core 
Book (pg. 32). 


Fell Ill 
You fell ill from a 
wasting disease. You 
eventually recovered, 
but it left behind some 
lasting fatigue. You 
lower your 
STA by 2. 


Angered City Folk 
It might be something 
you did (or something 

you didn’t do), but 

you have riled up the 
citizens of a major city. 

If you return to that 

city, the citizens will 

immediately see you 
as a threat or a target. 


Grudge 
Someone hurt 
your feelings, or 
you hurt theirs. 
Nevertheless, one of you 
is holding a grudge from 
this event. Roll on the 
Grudges table on pg. 28. 


False Accusation 
You were falsely accused 
of something. Roll 1d10. 
1-2: Theft, 3: Treason, 4: 

Cowardice, 5: Rape, 6: 
Murder, 7: Fraud, 8: 
Forbidden Magic, 9: Tax 
Evasion, 10: Unethical 
Practices. 


Betrayed 
You were betrayed by a 
friend or acquaintance. 
Choose a friend and 
make them an enemy. 
If you don't currently 
have any friends make a 
new one and then mark 
them as an enemy. 


Friend or Lover Killed 
A friend or lover was 
killed in an accident 

or perhaps due toa 
scheme. Pick a friend 
or lover. If you don't 
currently have a friend 
or lover, make a new 
one and then determine 
how they died. 


Overdraw 
In your arrogance or 
your ignorance, you drew 
too much power into 
your body and suffered 
the consequences. Lower 
your Hit Points by 2. 


Demonic Encounter 
At some point, whether 
it was your own doing, or 
the workings of a fellow 
student, you came in 
contact with a demon. 
You may have fled or 
perhaps you fought for 
your life but either way, 
you bear the demon’s 
lucifuge and they always 


know where you are. 


Deemed Dangerous 
Something you 
did labeled you as 
dangerous to the people 
of a kingdom. In this 
kingdom you are wanted 
by the authorities. 


Alchemical Incident 
You mixed the wrong 
reagents and suffered 
consequences. You take a 
-2 penalty to STA. 


Magical Block 
In your studies you neglected 
one of the elements in favor 
of others. Pick one element; 
earth, air, fire, or water. When 
casting spells of this element, 
you take a cumulative-2 to 
the Spell Casting check. Each 
time you get this Danger 
you must either choose the 
same element or a new one. 


Monster Encounter 
You had a near death 
experience while studying a 
monster. Choose a monster 
from the Witcher TRPG. 
You now have a phobia 
of this creature and take 
a -2 to Courage checks 
against it. Additionally, 
you must make a Courage 
check at DC:15 when first 
encountering any instance of 
this creature or be Staggered. 


Overdrew from a Place 
of Power 
You found a Place of Power, 
but in your inexperience 
overdrew from it and was 
permanently scarred in the 
process. Every Place of Power 
you draw from requires an 
Endurance save as if you were 
drawing from it a second time. 


Hunted by a Golem 
In your studies you managed 
to step on the toes of a 
powerful mage who sent 
a golem after you. It now 
seeks you out across the 
Continent. If it finds you 
it will try to destroy you. 


Accident 
Roll 1d10. 1-4: You 
were disfigured. 
Change your social 
standing to Feared, 
5-6: You were 
bedridden for 1d10 
months, 7-8: You 
lost 1d10 months of 


memory from that year, 


9-10: You suffer from 
horrible nightmares 
(7 in 10 chance each 

time you sleep). 


Imprisonment 
Something you did 
(or a false accusation) 
had you imprisoned 
for 1d10 months. 


Mentor Passed Away 
If your mentor was 
still alive, they passed 
away during this 
decade. If you did not 


have a mentor, you can 


re-roll this result. It 
is up to you and the 
GM to determine 
how they died. 


Hair Fell Out 
A spell went 
awry and asa 


result, all of the hair on 
your body has fallen out 


and refuses to 
grow back. 


Caught Red Handed 
You were caught 
attempting to 
manipulate others into 
doing your dirty work. 
Roll on the Grudges 
table on pg. 28 for an 
enemy. This enemy 
must have a Power 
based in Minions. 


Social Faux Pas 
You made a terrible 
social faux pas at a 
gathering of mages 
and are now treated 
as Tolerated by other 
mages instead of Equal. 


Hunted 
There are bounties 
out on you. A group 
of (1d6+5) bounty 
hunters are actively 
looking for you. 


Enemy of the State 
Your political schemes 
were discovered, and 
you have been branded 
the enemy of a nation 
you were conspiring 
against. You are 
Hated in that nation 
regardless of what 
your Social Standing 
is in that region. 


Lasting Scars 
One of your 
experiments backfired 
horrendously, 
deforming your face. 
Change your social 
standing to Feared. 


Magical Allergy 
You have developed 
an allergy to magic. 
Whenever you drink 

a potion or elixir, 

in addition to the 
standard effects, you 
also suffer from the 

Nausea condition for the 
duration of the elixir. 


Intoxicated 
You tried a poorly made 
concoction on yourself 
and it changed your 
metabolism forever. 
When drinking a 
potion or an elixir, 
you must roll beneath 
your BODY on 1d10 or 
become Intoxicated. 


Alchemical Dependency 
Through constant testing 
of elixirs and potions, 
you have developed an 
addiction to Elixirs. This 
works exactly the same 
as any other addiction. 
See Core Book (pg. 32). 


Loud Telepathy 

You learn the Telepathy 
Spell. You tried to improve 

upon the basic telepathy 
spell, but the result was not 
what you expected. When 
you spy telepathically on a 
target, you cannot help but 
emit a low mumble in their 
mind that may alert them. 
Anyone you spy upon can 
roll an Awareness check at 

a DC: 15 to sense you. 


Polymorphed 
You spent the decade 

polymorphed by another 

mage. It took a long time 
to find a way to reverse it. 
To this day, you have kept 
some of the mannerisms of 
that animal. You suffer a -2 

to your Social Etiquette. 


Extreme Vulnerability 
You tried to make yourself 
resistant to dimeritium. You 
got the opposite result. You 
suffer a -3 penalty to your 
Endurance checks to resist 
the effects of dimeritium. 


Teleportation Sickness 
You experience teleportation 
sickness. Whenever you 
teleport or travel through a 
portal, you must make an 
Endurance check at a DC: 
12 or suffer from the Nausea 
condition for 10 minutes. 


Cautious 


Arthritis 
Your hands have trouble 
making the intricate 
gestures required for 
spell casting without 
pain. You suffer a 
-1 penalty to your 
Spell Casting checks 
whenever you cast 
a spell that requires 
hand movement. 


Hexed 
You were hexed, either 
by your own hand or 
someone you irritated. 
Work with the GM to 
pick an appropriate 
hex from the ones 
listed on pg. 105 or pg. 
120 of the Core book. 
Your character has 
yet to undo the hex. 


Politicking 


Rival 
Through your actions, 
you have made a rival 

of another school 
member. Roll on the 
Grudges table on pg. 
28, but they must be 

the offended party. 


Retained by a Noble 
A minor noble hired you 
for your magical abilities 

and arcane knowledge. 
Each month, you gain a 
stipend of 100 crowns. 
However, you must go 
to them immediately 
whenever they summon 
you and perform any 
tasks they require of you 
or risk angering them. 


Experimentation 


Lost a Sense 
Your experiments have 
cost you much. You lost 
the sense of taste, smell 
or touch. You have a -2 
penalty on skill checks 
that rely on that sense. 


Mutation 
Your attempts at 


understanding mutagens 


backfired. You gain 
the physical changes 
of a Minor Mutation 
of a Mutagen of your 
choice and the changes 
in Social Standing. 


Magical Study 


Wanted by Hunters 
You did something so careless 
and heinous with your 
magic that a church sent a 
pair of Witch Hunters (or 
Mage Hunters in Nilfgaard) 
after you. They are enemies 
that will do anything to 
subdue or kill you. 


Cursed 
You cursed yourself by 


accident, trying to understand 


the workings of curses. 

Work with the GM to 
pick an appropriate curse 
from the ones listed on pg. 

230 of the Core Book. 


Criminal Sold out the offended party They/you have forgotten about it 
Mercenary | Backstabbed the offended party They/you are on the lookout 


Turned down the They/you have forgiven the aggressor 
z Merchant offended party but could be pushed back Know ledee 


Tried to ruin the offended 
party's reputation 


Tried to poison the 
offended party 


They/you are mad enough to fly into Mone 
a rage at your next meeting 8 


Insulted the offended party They/you are looking for allies to hurt the other 


| Scouted out a Prospective Mage 


You found a young person gifted with Chaos. You helped them 
bring their powers under control and trained them to be a mage. 
You are in constant communication and can ask them to re- 
search magical matters for you. You gain a Mage Ally. 


Moved into a Community 

You moved near a small village. The people there slowly 
opened up to you as you helped them with their woes. You 
will always be welcome there, and they will even offer shelter 
and food should you need it. While in this region you are 
always treated as Equal. 


Payment Due 
Someone owes you 600 crowns and you have kept the right to 
collect at any moment, even after decades. 


Familiar 

You have gained the friendship of an animal that follows you ev- 
erywhere. This can be a cat, a dog, a bird, or a serpent. This an- 
imal is trained and follows your commands unless you abuse it. 


Love Affair 

You found a lover who appreciated your magical talents and 
made a meaningful connection. Roll 1d10. 1-6: it lasted a few 
months, 7-8: it lasted a few years, 9-10: it’s still going on and 
off. 


Won a Duel 

You fought another mage in a magic duel and came out the 
victor. You took an item of theirs as a trophy. Roll 1d10. 1-4: 
An Elven Walking Staff, 5-8: A Gnomish Staff, 9-10: A Crystal 
Skull. 


Found a Portal 

You discovered the location of an old elven portal. Roll 1d10. 
On an even number it is still active; roll 1d10 again for the 
destination: 1-3: An old glade in Dol Blathanna, 4-5: the Tir 
Tochair mountains, 6-8: a swamp in northern Kaedwen, 9-10: 
deep under the city of Novigrad. The portal can also, at the 


GM's discretion, lead to another destination. 


Battle Magic Training 
You spent the decade training to battle other magic users and 
resist their power. You gain +1 to Resist Magic. 


Place of Power 

You have found the location of a Place of Power and harnessed 
its energy. You gain 5 Units of Fifth Essence. Work with the GM 
to determine where it is, and which element it is attuned to. 


10 


Armored Casting 

You have practiced casting in armor. Subtract 1 from the total 
EV of all the armor you are wearing for the purposes of spell 
casting. If you already have this benefit you re-roll this result. 


Profession 


Criminal 


Mercenary 


Merchant 


Artisan 


Scholar 


Druid 


Priest 
Mage 


Knight 


Noble 


How You Met 
You studied with them 


You saved them 
from an accident 


You supported them 
at a tough time 


You backed them 
against a betrayal 


You were one-time 
romantic partners 


You set out to 
manipulate them 


You showed them 
genuine kindness 


You set out to study them 


You helped them 
backstab someone 


You met during 
some punishment 


Closeness 


Acquaintances 


Acquaintances 


Acquaintances 


Acquaintances 


Acquaintances 


Acquaintances 


Friends 
Friends 


Friends 


Bound by Bond 


Value 


Social 


Social 


Knowledge 


Knowledge 


Physical 


Physical 


Minions 
Minions 


Magic 


Magic 


Knowledge 


Roll | Knowledge 


Stumped by a Curse 
You began delving into the workings of a particularly vile curse that has been affecting a 
family for generations. While you could not dispel it, your findings gave you insight into 
the nature of curses. You gain a +1 to Magical Training and a +1 to Hex Weaving. 


Memorized Formulae 
You spent your decade memorizing spell formulae. Choose one Novice and one 
Journeyman spell. You begin the game knowing both of these spells. 


Magical Biologist 
You spent a great deal of time studying the inherent magic of monsters like leshen and fiends. You begin 
the game knowing the Imbue Trophy Ritual. If you already have this knowledge you re-roll this result. 


Zerrikanian Alchemy 
You spent your time studying the alchemy of the Zerrikanian scholars. You 
begin the game with the Formula for Zerrikanian Fire memorized. 


Signs and Portents 
You peered into the future and saw an event you must prevent or must ensure happens. Work with 


your GM to determine what it is. This vision was conveyed through symbols and metaphors. 


Encyclopedia Arcana 
You spent this decade diving into the laws of Chaos, its evolution, and its uses. You gain a 
+2 to Magic Training. If you already have this knowledge you re-roll this result. 


Ley Line Studies 
You spent the decade studying the Ley Lines of the Continent. When you try to draw on a Ley Line 
you do so with a +2 bonus. Additionally, you begin the game knowing the Detect Ley Line Spell. 


Teacher’s Assistant 
You spent your time helping a teacher or perhaps your mentor. When teaching new 
spells to other mages, you halve the number of learning checks required. 


Apprenticed to an Alchemist 
You spent some time studying the finer points of alchemy. You begin the game 
with any 2 novice alchemical formulae and gain a +1 to Alchemy. 


Divination Expert 
You delved into the study of divination and clairvoyance. You begin the game knowing 
either the Hydromancy, Pyromancy, Tyromancy, or Oneiromancy Ritual. 


its 


> 
wh 


A Little Knowledge 


1271, Gweison Haul ¢ Transcribed by Alec von Karst 


NY a 
_ =v 
e303 


*..50, by positioning your hand over the dish and focusing on bring- 
ing just enough flame to ignite the candle without melting, we can see 
how controlling breath controls thoughts and thoughts control Chaos...” 


Glynnis held her palm flat above a deep terracotta bowl in illustra- 
tion, and her candle flickered to life, floating in the water. She glanced 
at the ranks of students ranked above her lecture space, encircling the 
hall. Black-clad in the uniform of Gweison Haul, most likewise wore 
expressions of concentration as they worked the experiment. 

A flickering giggle drew her scrutiny to the back of the room to see 
a student rewarded for his lapse in attention with a flash of flame and 
a face full of steam as the liquid performed its dual function of safety 
valve and salutary example. 

“Master Kai, if you are uninjured, kindly replace your water. 
Everyone else, snuff your flames and try again. As Kai has demon- 
strated, in losing concentration you lose control. This is a minor 
working in a peaceful room—imagine you stand in the ranks in bat- 
tle, drawing power to aid your comrades while men scream and die, 
purely to distract you.” 

That earned a ripple of shy laughter. It usually did. At least one 
student received an impromptu steam bath every time she taught this 
experiment, discomfiting them without true pain. Glynnis was mildly 
surprised only Kai the joker had washed his face, shed anticipated 
over-enthusiasm from another source... 

A strangled intake of breath from the front row she knew from 
experience meant “I have an opinion and you may not appreciate 
it.” There we are. 

“You have something to add on the topic of self-restraint, Mas- 
ter Aleister?” Glynnis kept her face neutral, but a smile touched her 
voice. Aleister was talented and intelligent and instructing him was 
a welcome test of her own control. 

“Mistress Var Treharne, this is ridiculous!” The words burst from 
a boy in the center front row, his accustomed place. “Why do you not 
truly test us? Why do we play with candles and hold our breath when 
the forces of Chaos are ours to command?” 

‘As your classmate has just demonstrated, Master Aleister, not 
everyone has yet attained your finely-tuned self-control and preci- 
sion. Were it not for the lessons you learn here, your emotions might 
overwhelm you in stressful moments. I have engravings to pass 
around of the injuries that may be sustained through unwise power 
drawing and I caution you they make for grim viewing” 

Aleister flushed and Glynnis realized something was amiss. He 
challenged her teachings daily, but this was new, harsher, and out of 
step with their usually amicable exchanges. 

“That’ a failure in your students, Mistress! Their faith failed them, 
and they lost control. If we hold to the Great Sun, surplus Power is 
safely channeled away, protecting the faithful mage! All you're doing is 
holding back more capable students to save the slower feeling foolish!” 

Fervor shook his voice and Glynnis felt a growing chill of concern, 
though her own lessons in control kept it from her face. This needed 
defusing; if Aleister didn’t vent hed burst and if she could isolate his 
ideas, this might be turned to a lesson for the class. One to hopefully 
prevent a favorite student from immolating himself one fine day. 

‘I don't recall any teachings referring to protecting ourselves 
from our own foolishness, Aleister. But please, I am always willing to 
learn. Come, the floor is yours.” 


Aleister, briefly taken aback at the sudden opportunity, started 
clambering over his classmates to the stairs. His last obstacle was a 
boy who sat transfixed, wide-eyed at this boldness. Aleister met his 
gaze and the child retreated, bolting from the room as the new lec- 
turer took to his stage with the confidence of a performer. 

“We learn to deal with the minutiae of power, with petty, limited 
tricks that must never be demonstrated to a wider audience lest we 
scare them. In the priesthood, initiates our age are trained to glory 
in their abilities! All is done in honor of the Great Sun; the people 
can see what their leaders accomplish in its name! We are capable of 
much more than we are permitted to show!” 

The sound of the door and heavy footsteps drew Glynnis’ 
attention, but her gaze remained fixed on Aleister, her mind rac- 
ing. Always sincere in his beliefs, this was a whole new level. Hed 
been attending extra-curricular classes with priests of the Great 
Sun; what had they taught and why hadn't she made time to mon- 
itor their activities? She drew in a breath to remonstrate, calm the 
situation, regain control. 

‘Aleister, you raise interesting questions we should discuss, 
calmly.” Too late she felt the unmistakable prickle of the boy drawing 
in power. 

‘TIl show you what I've learned—what I can do! Then you'll 
understand!” 

Aleister drew in fire, pointed both hands at Glynnis’ bowl and 
hurled a stream of flame that splashed like oil and washed out in a 
wave, filling the lecture floor. Glynnis barely had time to throw up 
a defense; the flames split and flowed past her, lapping against the 
front-most desks as students recoiled from the heat. 

The table and paneling were cracked and blackened; Glynnis 
stood untouched while fragments of her notes rained embers around 
her. It was so much worse for Aleister. 

The boy let out a wail of agony and collapsed to his knees as his 
arms scorched away, revealing twitching tendons and blackened 
bone without the mercy of allowing him to faint. 

From the doorway, a cry. 

“See! I told you—he’s dangerous!” 

Suddenly, armored men were running down the steps, filling the 
floor, while the boy who had fled pointed accusingly as Glynnis tried to 
summon the coherence of thought to cast a healing spell on the wreckage 
of the child before her. 

She was jolted from her spiraling thoughts when two of the men— 
Mage Hunters, she now registered—gripped Aleister by his shoulders 
and pushed his head down. Glynnis started forward, a plea for pity 
on her lips, but powerful hands stopped her in her tracks. There was 
nothing to be done as their captain declared Aleister’ crime and sen- 
tence, their right and duty within Gweison Haul. In another breath 
the axe swept down, ending Aleister’ torment and sending his sev- 
ered head rolling across the floor, an expression of agonized confu- 
sion on his face. 

A ripple of approval spread through the class as the Hunters released 
and saluted Glynnis, their task complete, a dangerous rogue dispatched. 
They filed out, all shining mail and heroic stature and only the force of 
ingrained habit prevented her from dropping to the floor and wailing. 
Without removing her gaze from Aleister’ as his remains were uncere- 
moniously carried away, Glynnis spoke with all apparent control. 

“Class. Dismissed.” 


4 we, 
& 
i 
sia . , ae 
ee eee ee an < —- at. — —_ . el 
‘ ~ 
\ a 
a - ~ = =~ —- ee 
— 
| i) aE I = s - eee 
~ 
» 
ee - —— ~ 
. 
ol TT a pe — 


Priests 


“Faith is important; it can give comfort, strength, and help believers extract sense from a confus- 
ing world. But a gentle faith in another climate may turn harsh; a simple belief twisted and com- 
plex. I walk cautiously as a stranger around the faithful until I discover the flower or the flame.” 


ee 


I believe this will be the most controversial chapter in 
the book: priests and magic. The standard explanation is 
that priests can use priestly magic, like invocations and 
incantations, because their gods or the powers they wor- 
ship use magic through the priest. This is an important 
point because in this age of backlash against mages, many 
priests draw a thin line with their invocations on one side, 
and the terrible, ungodly mage spells on the other side. 


Let’s look at where priestly power comes from. Priests of 
Kreve and the Eternal Flame claim their magic comes from a 
holy being. They are trained by old, venerable priests of their 
faith who have spent decades manifesting their god’s magic 
through themselves. The concept is that the priest is taught 
how to contact their god, and how to receive his power. As 
far as we know, the power of Kreve or the Eternal Flame can 
be used for good or evil purposes. I think we can agree that 
the work with the Order of the Flaming Rose was morally 
dubious at best. These priests are generally found in towns 
and cities. In larger cities they may have many beautifully 
decorated temples with an “eternal” flame in each. These 
are faiths for people who want a well-controlled, predict- 
able faith that will tell you what you should and should not 
be doing. Besides keeping the temple, and listening to the 
supplications of followers who come to them with concerns, 
priests may be involved with local charities and local pol- 
itics. They usually encourage conformity and promote the 
absolute power of kings. 


The priestly power wielded by the followers of Mel- 
itele and Freya the Great Mother of the Skelligers are less 
straightforward. In both cases the goddess is one with the 
natural world. A lot of their magic is healing of mind and 
body, and fertility. It suggests that Melitele and the Great 
Mother are focuses for the natural powers. As far as I know, 
the priestesses of both of these groups believe they are given 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


YO 


their magical power by their Goddess but do not believe 
that they are being used as a conduit for their Goddess. The 
priestesses of Melitele especially are keepers of knowledge 
and often have schools within their temples. The religions of 
the goddesses are common throughout the North and in the 
northern provinces of Nilfgaard. They exist quietly among 
the people. In Nilfgaard, because of the official status of the 
Great Sun, the faith of Melitele may be somewhat overshad- 
owed but temples and priestesses can still be found. In the 
North, besides education the priestesses are alchemical as 
well as magical healers. They encourage people to live with 
nature and they dispense common sense. 


Then there is the Great Sun. The power of the Great Sun 
is seen in different ways in different parts of Nilfgaard. On 
the fringes, the small local farming villages, some still believe 
that the Emperor is in some way connected to the sun and is 
a focus for the power of said heavenly body. The main tem- 
ple of the Great Sun is adjacent to the imperial palace. It is 
beautiful inside and out and its exterior contributes to Nilf- 
gaard’s capital being named the City of Golden Towers. All 
temples of the Great Sun, large or small, are subsidized by 
the government. Priests and priestesses can marry and have 
families as it is consistent with the values of the Great Sun. 
As long as one is loyal to the Empire and fulfills their civic 
responsibilities the faith encourages the comforting values 
of home, family, filial responsibilities, humility, hard work, 
and charity. Education is overseen by the Imperial Office of 
Education and is not related to religion. 


In all of these religions, incantations and invocations of 
the power of their god is trained but functions primarily 
through focused will and piety. 


—Brandon of Oxenfurt 


To the literal uninitiated, a priest and a mage may appear to be 
capable of exactly the same feats. They draw and channel power 
laypeople dont understand and change the world around them 
to a degree both incomprehensible and terrifying. And yet a 
fully trained mage cannot attempt to perform an invocation 
that a novitiate can perform with relative ease. Both are gener- 
ating supernatural effects, so what's the difference? 


A mage approaches the study of Chaos and its manipula- 
tion in terms of science first, art second. They learn to chan- 
nel the quantities of the correct form of Chaos that they need 
to achieve their desired effect. Casting spells in a heightened 
emotional state can lead to overdrawing power, with undesired 
consequences. Priests draw upon their own fervor and faith to 
perform invocations. They have passion, depth of belief, and 
a certainty that their abilities come from their spiritual con- 
nection to a power greater than themselves. That is anathema 
to the analytical soul of many mages, and hence invocations 
simply make no sense to them and are mere words. 


Where they find common ground is in the most formu- 
laic of workings. Anyone capable of channeling a thread 
of power can learn how to cast a Ritual, with its clear rules 
and defined effects. Hexes likewise come with standardized 


recipes to follow, both for their casting and their lifting. 
These imposed misfortunes are cast simply by following the 
instructions to the letter. Like baking an unpleasant cake. 


Does priestly magic come from a god? Something powers 
their invocations, but these are designed in such a way as 
to render mages incapable of comprehending the necessary 
mindset. Priests internalize prescribed portions of lore and 
chant, declaim or mutter these to invoke the power of their 
deity, working themselves into a state approaching self-hyp- 
nosis. It does not seem to depend upon how “good” or “evil” 
they are, simply that they deploy their belief in the power of 
their chosen divinity to accomplish their goals. 


Irrespective of the dominant faith of a region, the dedication 
of priests in their training and work garners the respect of 
common folk, if not their belief. Unless running up against 
someone actively opposed to their god, or to gods as a con- 
cept, priests are regarded as responsible parties, and their 
opinions carry weight. This influence is especially strong 
over followers of their own deity and magnified where there 
is one dominant faith, such as Nilfgaard, where the Great 
Sun often over-shadows all alternatives. A village priest may 
be all a peasant ever sees of the clergy, so to them, they are 
the embodiment of the faith. 


Leadership and political squabbles are entirely outside the 
purview of the man on the street; all they see is someone who 
heals the sick, rallies the faithful, and can pull lightning from 
the sky to defend their flock. They perceive priestly magic as 
“cleaner” than the more incomprehensible mage workings 
without the associated taint of dark arts. Thus, priests repre- 
sent a bulwark against what might harm ordinary people, be 
that monsters, rival faiths, or subversion. Priests of almost all 
stripes hold positions as pillars of the community, holding 
the responsibility of being trusted by the people. 


Despite a plethora of gods and mystical powers to choose 
from, there are still those who simply do not believe. These 
people do not disbelieve in the effects of priestly magic 
but do not call them “miracles.” They don't get to ignore 
invocations, nor gain any special defense against them— 
it’s their source they doubt, not their efficacy. Nonbelievers 
normally fall into one of three groups: gods exist but are 
unworthy of worship, gods may or may not exist, or gods 
are simply a justification for the spell casting of priests. 


The first includes those who feel failed by their faith 
or representatives of a deity. This can destroy their belief 


and comes from a place of anger that may 
fall upon priests, temples, and the concept of 
gods altogether. The remaining groups tend 
to be those who have studied and dug into 
the secrets of natural and magical philoso- 
phy. Scholars of Oxenfurt may believe that 
their knowledge renders the reality of gods 
irrelevant; they may, or may not, exist with 
no direct impact on the world at large, save 
that which their followers impose. The closest 
to classical atheists often originate from the 
ranks of mages. They understand the flow of 
Chaos on a personal level and see no reason 
to bring superior beings into the equation. To 
this last group priests and their invocations 
are merely another form of spell casting that 
requires special training but uses the talents 
of the caster. That priests vehemently disagree 
with this point of view is a source of disgrun- 
tlement to these scholarly mages. 


The Old Ways 


The Old Ways is a catch-all term by which 
modern, or at least dominant, faiths refer to 
the Gods Who Came Before—beliefs once 
commonplace which now seem folksy, out- 
dated, and potentially dangerous. To the peas- 
antry, however, the Old Ways represent a part 
of their social history and may linger, despite 
their having ostensibly adopted newer deities. 
The inhabitants of a village on the Yaruga may 
be “hatched, matched, and dispatched” under 
the auspices of the Eternal Flame, and yet still 
light a candle to Veyopatis or pour out a liba- 
tion to Dana Meadbh on their way home from 
the fields. Some more militant beliefs might 
try to crush the Old Ways, whoever they may 
venerate, but this is more likely to send them 
underground than eradicate them. When 
the crusaders move on, the believers dust off 
shrines, uncover murals, and garland sacred 
trees with fresh flowers. 


The Organization of Belief 


To an outsider, the mosaic of competing dei- 
ties and divine powers worshiped by Nordlings 
might seem like a set of outright separate reli- 
gions. Today, with the actions of Eternal Fire 
clergy, this conclusion is getting closer and 


closer to the truth, but it was not always this 
way. Even during these troubled times there 
are still itinerant priests who preach the glory 
of multiple gods at once. 


The majority of the Northern Realms’ 
inhabitants believe in the gods but specifi- 
cally revere one or more deities from a loose, 
regional pantheon, with the function and 
importance of given deities interpreted differ- 
ently depending on regional traditions. Born 
out of a myriad of local cults and beliefs of the 
settlers, this pantheon of beings is referred to 
by some priests and scholars as the Immortal 
Ones. 


The task of proper interpretation of the 
many texts and doctrines of this pantheon, in 
the Novigrad Union's spirit of separation of 
church and state, belonged to highly esteemed 
clergymen: arch priests of important tem- 
ples and popular preachers. Together, they 
formed local clerical Councils convened to 
settle doctrinal and disciplinary disputes. The 
most important of such gatherings are Elec- 
toral Colleges, each choosing a Hierarch out of 


Gods and 
Monsters 


To common, powerless 
people, anything capable 
of devastating their com- 
munity might be consid- 
ered divine. The ekhidna 
Melusine in Skellige and 
the sylvan calling him- 
self “The Allgod’, for ex- 
ample, were propitiated 
by the locals out of fear 
of their wrath. The dif- 
ference between “god” 
and “monster” becomes 
academic when either 
could destroy you and all 
you love. Such sacrifices 
can themselves become 
the root of new cults, de- 
tached from their origin. 


Subsuming 
Beliefs 


Younger faiths can sup- 
plant their forebears by 
appropriating the old 
deity as an aspect of the 
newcomer. Instead of 
stamping out the exist- 
ing beliefs, missionaries 
encourage the adoption 
of the new gods as part of 
the status quo. They add 
names to ceremonies 
and fold festivals into 
new holidays with a sim- 
ilar theme. The Eternal 
Fire, out of Novigrad, has 
incorporated the works 
of the Prophet Lebioda 
into its canon, making 
many of his followers its 
own. Gradually the old 
gods become less prom- 
inent, until a couple of 
generations down the 
line, people forget things 
were ever different. 


their ranks whose task was to oversee the peaceful relations 
between priesthoods of different deities, serve as negotiators 
between local clergy and monarchs, and help with the orga- 
nization and funding of new temples in areas of their care. 
The Hierarchs were, at least officially, equal in importance, 
but it soon became apparent that in practice the most esteem 
was tied to the five Hierarchs close to seats of powers in the 
Four Kingdoms and Cintra, with the Hierarch of Novigrad 
who was often chosen to act as a mediator between con- 
flicted Nordling kings. 


This model ultimately fell out of favor as over time the 
Hierarchs began to pick favorites from the pantheon. Cyrus 
Engelkind Hemmelfart, elected in early 1250s as the Hier- 
arch of Novigrad, chose the Eternal Fire as a force to lead 
the hearts of his subjects and promoted its worship with the 
help of Novigrad’s Chancellor of Security, Chappelle. Simi- 
larly, Krevenic Hengist Pikker, the Hierarch of Ard Carraigh, 
started to promote Kreve, the heavenly god of expansion, to 
justify King Henselt’s conquests. The last truly ecumenical 
Hierarch who strove to keep intact the balance of power 
between churches in the realm of his care was Olcan Gran- 
demot, the Hierarch of Vengerberg who cared even for Freya 
who was revered by Skelliger mercenaries who were hired 
during the Loremark War. Olcan’s death at the hands of King 
Henselt marks the final step to the end of this dialogue. 


The aforementioned monotheistic tendencies might ulti- 
mately lead to a situation akin to the position of the Church 
of the Great Sun in the Empire. Here, only one faith is 
officially recognized by the state, with others not officially 
banned but often overshadowed. Each province has a clerical 
Council called a Synod that is composed of arch priests of 
regional Great Sun temples. In the major provinces, there are 
also hierarchs, called Incandescents. Unlike in the North, the 
Great Sun’s Incandescents hold supreme power over lower 
clergy, and are themselves held accountable to the Emperor. 


On the other hand, the organization of the priesthood is 
very different in Skellige. Here, while Hindarsfjall is treated 
as the spiritual center of the kingdom, all temples are entirely 
autonomous. Despite a lack of centralized hierarchy or cler- 
ical Councils, Skellige is refreshingly devoid of theological 
conflicts. Druids, and worshipers of Freya, Sea Gods, or the 
Heroes, don't feel the need to squabble about the primacy 
of their school of thought as they are bound in one culture. 


An entirely different matter are the Dark Cults, as their 
followers tend to be unwelcome even in the most tolerant 
regions of the Continent. Worshiping gods with a deep 
interest in blood and death requires secrecy. Dark cultists 
determine the wishes and goals of their deity on a far more 
localized basis than the mainstream “cults” and the leader- 
ship of each circle, cell, or web is determined by cunning and 
strength rather than assigned from above by a hierarch or a 
council. Promotion via “Dead Man’s Shoes” is the usual way 
of climbing the ranks for people prone to meeting masked, 
in isolated places, with the goal of bringing misfortune in the 
interest of personal power. 


Dana Meadbh 


¥ 


Dana Meadbh is an ancient being, known under different names by her worshipers dating from 
before the time when elves ruled. The elves call her Dana Meadbh, the dwarves Bloemenmagde; 
she’s also known as the Eternal One, Lyfia, and the Queen of the Fields. She is not necessarily 
recognized as a Goddess but more of a personifications of nature and the natural world, with an 
emphasis on the life of the wilderness and the wild wood. 


The worship of Dana Meadbh is one of the most open and welcoming of all the faiths; as the 
personification of love for all living things, she is revered by people of all races. Her followers 
have no official organization or hierarchy and those who depend upon the weather and the soil 
for their livelihood will often celebrate her as part of their direct connection to nature. There are 
no temples to Dana Meadbh and her few places of worship are ancient and derelict, having been 
abandoned by their inhabitants long ago. These places of worship can be found at significant 
trees, rivers, and caves, but her worshipers more commonly make offerings to her at their places 
of connection. Farmers may offer up a portion of their crops in the fields where they grow, bee- 
keepers share honey directly from their hives, and foresters burn scented woods to show their 
respect around the trees they harvest. The elves, who do not, as a rule, practice agriculture make 
offerings gathered from natural groves and orchards. 


While Dana Meadbh’s worship has declined over the years, her faithful can be found across the 
Continent, frequently giving worship to Dana Meadbh privately while publicly following another 
deity. Her worship is strongest in Dol Blathanna, the ancient elven kingdom now restored to their 
rule by Nilfgaard in gratitude to those elves who fought for Emhyr var Emreis. It is least common in 
Skellige, where agriculture is less important and much of Dana Meadbh’s purview is held by Freya, 
but in the Northern Kingdoms and Nilfgaard it survives as part of the nebulous concept of “the Old 
Ways; much to the disgruntlement of proponents of the Eternal Fire who see it as ancient supersti- 
tion. Druids do not worship Dana Meadbh, as their focus is on nature as an entity in its own right. In 
fact, Dana Meadbh has no “priests” in the traditional sense. Those who guide communities in her 
rituals and practices are most commonly village elders and sages. 


In keeping with her many names, Dana Meadbh’s worshipers can vary wildly. Scoiatael bands 
might call upon her aid for the trees to hide them while making raids on human farmers who 
will raise a basket of produce to her come harvest time. The goddess loves all people and does not 
play favorites. As a personal deity, she is known to visit the people from time to time at her cel- 
ebrations, joining them for feasts or roaming the fields in the shape of a beautiful young woman 
adorned with flowers and accompanied by various animals which flock to her side. 


Elven God or 
Regional Deity? 


“Many humans and even 
some elves would con- 
sider Dana Meadbh to be 
an ‘Elven deity’ This, of 
course, is inaccurate. The 
Queen of the Fields is an 
ancient being who existed 
long before my people 
arrived on the Continent. 
I would think this associ- 
ation comes from the Aen 
Seidhe’s strong connec- 
tion to the natural world. 
Even I, who grew up in the 
midst of the City of Golden 
Towers, feel a certain con- 
nection to the forests and 
valleys of the Continent.” 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


Naturally 
Neutral 


As perhaps the most lit- 
eral personification of 
nature, Dana Meadbh 
remains neutral in most 
affairs unless they have 
to do with the natural 
world. She has no inter- 
est in the rise and fall 
of kings, the shifting of 
power, or even the per- 
secution of one race or 
another. 


The Flaming 
Rose Now 


After the catastrophe in 
Vizima and the death of 
their Grand Master just 
a few months prior, the 
chaos at the Loc Muinne 
Summit, and a crushing 
defeat at the hands of the 
Nilfgaardian war ma- 
chine, the Order of the 
Flaming Rose has been 
all but destroyed. King 
Radovid V has reclaimed 
and sold their fortresses 
and estates and effective- 
ly disbanded the order 
in the eyes of the church. 
The few remaining mem- 
bers have largely gone 
their separate ways with 
many of them joining 
Radovid’s Witch Hunt- 
ers and a small faction 
turning to drug-dealing 
to make a living. Still, a 
few knights have not giv- 
en up on their order and 
wander the realm seek- 
ing to carry on Jacques 
de Aldersburg’s goals. 


The Eternal Fire 


() 


MNS 


The Eternal Fire is not a deity—the scriptures describe It as a divine force, the power that fuels the hearts 
of both gods and mortals in a perpetual fight against evil. Its Church stands as a light in the world’s dark- 
ness, a guide both spiritual and toward progress and advancement. Its focus is on defending the faithful 
against evil, whether that be within themselves or from external forces that would harm or corrupt them. 


Representatives of the Eternal Fire can be found spread across the North, in most towns and many 
villages. The church is centered in the Free City of Novigrad, which houses a full nineteen temples to 
the faith. Largest and most imposing of these is the Great Temple of the Eternal Fire, seat of the Hier- 
arch of Novigrad. An elected position, they are voted in by the Electoral College of Novigrad, a body 
of priests and high-ranking local worthies, as part of their civic duty. The power of the church in the 
city is growing rapidly, and there are concerns that it will eventually undermine the city government. 


In the towns and villages of the Northern Kingdoms, the Eternal Fire offers a sense of security to 
the populace. It is strident in its morality but has no desire to lose congregants to the forces of darkness 
and will take steps to hire aid or distribute charity to those of the faithful in times of need. When an 
enemy is less immediately obvious, the faithful might look to their purses and wonder what exactly 
it is that the church does for them. Here, it has proven necessary for the priesthood to expand their 
definition of “evil” The true cleansing wrath falls upon non-humans, practitioners of sorcery, and any 
who threaten the congregation. The harsh principles of the church are attractive to zealots and fanatics 
who then act according to their own interpretations of its scriptures. 


An effective and popular way of disposing of evildoers is through the cleansing power of flame, specifi- 
cally pyres and stakes, depending upon the occasion. Burning the local witch in the town square is the sort 
of statement that makes people consider their own beliefs, and cling to them even more vocally, lest they be 
judged “evil? The Eternal Fire has its own Inquisitors to ferret out and interrogate suspects, through tortures 
frequently involving flames and branding. Priests are known by their red and white robes, often adorned 
with a black cross with golden filigree. This faith primarily appeals to men, though it numbers some women 
within the zealous ranks of its priests. The church also maintains lay members, including Witch Hunters, 
and a dedicated unit of Temple Guards in Novigrad. 


The Order of the Flaming Rose 


Founded in 1268, the Flaming Rose was tasked with the spreading of the faith in the Eternal Fire and 
the defense of the needy. It was born from the dregs of the Order of the White Rose, which mostly listed 
members of the nobility among its members and was a stiff and moralistic order affiliated with the Cult 
of Kreve. When the previous Grand Master of the order died, the new leader, Jacques de Aldersberg, 
imposed his vision of a less tolerant and more proactive organization. Non-humans and mages suffered 
special persecutions at the hands of the Flaming Rose. 


The predominant faith in the Skellige Isles, Freya represents the differing aspects of the forces of the 
natural world, similar to Melitele on the mainland. While she is depicted as maiden, mother, and crone 
at different time, she is most commonly depicted as a beautiful, mature woman, heavily pregnant, 
wearing the diamond Brisingamen around her neck. Freya embodies the qualities of maternal wisdom 
and strongly supports love, marriage, and families. 


Freya is normally benevolent, and the Islanders are her beloved children. She is, however, a mother 
with some definite ideas on how her children should behave, and those who break her strictures or des- 
ecrate her temples face her wrath. There are many strong and adventurous types who would sooner face 
a screaming horde than disappointment and punishment from their mothers for cruelty and misdeeds. 
In Freya's case, she severs them from the source of motherly love and kindness until they show proper 
and sincere contrition. Those who refuse to repent or do penance for their crimes face an even stronger 
punishment. The goddess curses them to never again know the love and support she provides, eternally. 
Worse, because Freya embodies the concept of family, this curse falls upon any descendants of the mis- 
creant in perpetuity. A lesson in not making your mother angry and why abandoning or slaying one’s 
own kin is one of the worst crimes a Skelliger can commit. Those who have done so can seek an honor- 
able death in battle to expunge their offense and protect their children’s futures. 


Throughout the Skellige Isles, the general population reveres Freya, especially women regardless of 
social status. Those who work closely with nature and depend upon its moods and shifts also strongly 
favor this goddess. A hunter might offer a prayer to her for a successful pursuit, a farmer would like- 
wise in hopes of clement weather and a good harvest. The raiders for whom the Isles are famed plead 
for calm seas and those they leave on land for their safe and swift return. 


Women form the whole of the priesthood of Freya, though men may serve in a lay capacity. Priest- 
esses wear practical dresses and caps of simple, purple fabrics. This suits their position as de facto 
“mothers” to the community, taking care of injuries and illnesses and adjudicating squabbles before 
they develop sufficiently to escalate to the jarls’ courts. In particular, they serve women as midwives 
and counselors, providing solace, explanation, and remedies for girls as they mature. Worshipers may 
seek their blessings for healthy children, crops, and the safe return of loved ones. Freya's priests regard 
those with sorcerous abilities with mistrust, as not quite being part of the natural world. Druids, how- 
ever, while not forming part of her clergy, recognize Freya as a face of Mother Nature, in a bond of 
mutual respect with the priesthood. Freya’s primary temple is on the isle of Hindarsfjall; here, her wor- 
shipers make offerings of honey, strawberries, yogurt, and mead, and sing her love songs and poems. 


According to legend, Freya can take the form of a white cat, so cats, along with falcons, are sacred to 
her. Feeding a stray or adopting a cat to your hearth is seen as a way of cultivating her favor. 


The Gods 
of the Sea 


“Had a lot of dealings 
with Skelligers over my 
years. Mostly tradesmen 
comin from Hindars- 
fyall. Seems like they 
worship some ‘Gods of 
the Sea’ as well as Freya 
but I'm not sure that they 
all agree who these ‘Gods 
of the Sea are. I’ve heard 
plenty of names chanted 
under their breath and 
offerings tossed into the 
ocean but it’s rare that 
I hear the same name 
twice. Heh, probably a 
regional thing.” 
—Rodolf Kazmer 


Hemdall & 
The Clans 


Unlike many nations, 
the Clans of Skellige 
hold a very person- 
al connection to their 
goddess. It is believed 
by the Skelliger peo- 
ple that the founders 
of the 6 great clans of 
Skellige were all sons 
of the great hero of leg- 
end, Hemdall and his 
wife Heulyn. Hemdall, 
a mighty champion 
who lays in rest until 
summoned for the last 
great battle of Ragh nar 
Roog, is believed by 
most to be the son of 
Freya and a demi-god 
in his own respect. 


The Spread of 
the Great Sun 


After the end of the First 
Northern War, the faith 
of the Great Sun began 
to spread north. Fanat- 
ics, mystics, and priests 
began to preach the good 
word of the Great Sun, 
linking it to the prophe- 
cy of the legendary Elven 
oracle, Ithlinne aep Aeve- 
nien. Ithlinne’s Prophecy 
declared that the world 
would be destroyed by 
the White Frost and 
would be born anew by 
the White Flame and 
the White Queen. These 
itinerant priests claimed 
that Emperor Emhyr var 
Emreis, the White Flame 
Dancing on the Barrows 
of his Enemies, was the 
legendary White Flame 
which would bring life 
back to the world. While 
the Northern Monarchs 
quickly cracked down on 
these preachers, there are 
still Nordling worshipers 
of the Great Sun who see 
the Emperor as a savior 
who will usher in a new, 
utopian world. 


The Great Sun 


The Church of the Great Sun is the official state religion of the Nilfgaardian Empire and the Em- 
peror, Emhyr var Emreis, is also the Head of the Church. While the Emperor has no part in the 
church's day to day affairs and is not a trained priest of the Great Sun, it has been tradition for 
the Emperor to be the Head of the Church since the time of Emperor Torres var Emreis. During 
Torres var Emreis’ rise to power, his followers claimed that he was the literal incarnation of the 
Sun and held the divine right to rule over the land. There are speculations that this belief came 
from more ancient beliefs held by the humans who lived around the River Alba but regardless, this 
belief in a divine right of rulership helped found Nilfgaard. As time passed, the faith evolved and 
the Var Emreis family came to merely be blessed by the Great Sun and not descend from the Sun 
itself. Still, a few people in the most rural regions believe this to be true. 


While its political power is now limited, the church of the Great Sun lies at the heart of the 
Nilfgaardian Empire. The banners of the black-armored military bear the emblem of The Great 
Sun, and most imperial citizens follow its tenet. Among the knights and aristocracy of the Empire, 
the tenants of the Great Sun exist as a set of guidelines for living and a reminder of the power 
of the imperial family. The church extols the virtues of bravery, loyalty, and cooperation while 
also giving the nobility of Nilfgaard a clear way to distance themselves from the commoners. 
Those who support the Emperor are seen highly in the eyes of the church and are often rewarded. 
Among the commoners of the Empire and beyond, the Church of the Great Sun offers a light in 
dark times. The faith teaches that if one lives their life by the virtues of the Great Sun and shows 
their loyalty to the Empire they will flourish and the Empire will protect them from the ravages 
of the world. Despite all of the morally gray actions of the Nilfgaardian Empire, the Church of 
the Great Sun is a supportive organization which encourages familial devotion, community, and 
respect for the natural world among the often beleaguered people of the Continent. On a day-to- 
day basis, priests of the Great Sun organize celebrations, hand out small gifts or cakes at festivals, 
and involve themselves in every emotional beat in the lives of the faithful, with ceremonies for 
births, marriages, and deaths. 


Shrines and temples to the Great Sun are common throughout Nilfgaard and its territories. 
The priests themselves are distinguished by their robes, normally black accented with gold or 
silver. At significant occasions such as eclipses or the sitting Emperor and High Priest’s birthday 
priests will wear gold or yellow vestments with complex patterns of embroidery. In addition, they 
bear white enameled masks on chains around their necks, which are worn during services and 
heavily painted with stylized images of the Sun. Among some priests blonde hair is considered 
most fashionable and some rising priests commission wigs, formally styled, and worn as part of 
their ceremonial garb. 


Kreve 


N 


Kreve, also known as the Forefather, is often considered by Nordlings to be the Sky Father to 
Melitele’s Earth Mother. In a way, they are two sides of the same coin. While Melitele preaches 
the benefits of compassion and cooperation, Kreve inspires his worshipers to action in defense 
of their people. He is a deity who opposes the forces of “Evil” and extols the virtue of family and 
community. The Forefather expects his worshipers to act decisively and never surrender to forces 
which might harm their community. 


The usual image of Kreve is as a towering, muscular man wielding a spear made of lightning 
and a large shield. His priesthood stands against the monsters and evildoers that would threaten 
their flock and the dangerous nature of the Continent has led them to take up their swords against 
a great number of different threats over the years. The priests of Kreve have encouraged and 
empowered the people to stand and fight against bandits, monsters, hostile non-humans, wild 
animals, and foreign invaders. All in defense of their homes and families. This eagerness to protect 
the realm made the Church of Kreve a perfect match for the Monarchy of the Northern Realms. 
Over time, a number of Northern Monarchs embraced Kreve, raising up the priesthood and in 
return receiving their blessing. The church claimed that Kreve had chosen the Monarch in ques- 
tion to rule the land and that any defiance against the crown would be violating the divine order. 


Recently, the Church of Kreve has lost some of its influence in parts of the North, with the 
people flocking to the more radical Church of the Eternal Fire which is quickly gaining power 
in Redania. The worship of Kreve is especially popular in Kaedwen and the Hengfors League, 
though, where its tenets of self-reliance match the harsh climate. This land has built a hardy, aus- 
tere and stoic population, for whom the strong and non-coddling nature of Kreve is a good fit. 
Particularly, the priesthood in Kaedwen has placed itself close to the seat of power and holds great 
sway within the kingdom. 


Kreve’s worship is present among specific groups outside Kaedwen as well. He is popular 
among those who live harsh lives on the fringes of society such as lumberjacks, miners, and pio- 
neers and among people who risk their lives to protect others including soldiers, knights, and 
even mercenaries. These worshipers strive to live by the Virtues of Kreve which are preached by 
all priests of the Forefather as a guideline to a true, fulfilling life. 


The priesthood of Kreve is exclusively made up of men; though his philosophy of self-reliance 
appeals to some women as well, they cannot serve as priests. Clerical garb is dark brown or black 
robes, with an integral pointed hood falling low on the brow. The border of the robe is of a lighter 
brown, trending toward gold. An embroidered stole, depicting crossed lightning bolts, may be 
worn for ceremonies or official business. Some priests of Kreve carry a sword or other weapon so 
that they can be ready to defend those in need at any moment. 


God of Good 
Fortune 


Despite the strict nature 
of Kreve, the Forefather 
has come to be wor- 
shiped by risk-takers and 
action-oriented members 
of society. In adherence to 
the tenets of Kreve, these 
individuals act decisively 
and trust that Kreve will 
guide them. And so, they 
call out to Kreve to bless 
their actions. In turn, 
priests of Kreve believe 
that this mixture of de- 
votion and self-confi- 
dence pleases the light- 
ning god and can gain 
his blessing. And so, for 
many, Kreve has come to 
be associated with good 
fortune, as long as you 
actively seek out that 
fortune and make Kreve 
proud. 


The Virtues of 
Kreve 


The Virtues of Kreve are 
a set of traits extolled by 
the priesthood in the 
name of the Forefather. 
Every worshiper of the 
Forefather likely knows 
these virtues by heart and 
tries to live their lives ac- 
cording to them where 
possible. The virtues are: 
Courage, Hospitality, 
Self-Reliance, Honor, and 
Truth. 


Church 
Protectors 


“Heh, funny thing about 
temples of Melitele. Plenty 
folk think theyre good 
targets for raiding and 
what not. All staffed by 
scholarly women, plenty 
of statues and herbs to 
steal. And ya might just 
get away with that in a 
tiny town somewhere in 
the backwoods. Plenty of 
temples that don't train 
their priestesses to fight. 
But let me tell ya, they 
dont have to. I personally 
watched a group of ban- 
dits try to break down a 
temples doors in Aedirn 
a few years ago. ‘Course 
I was about to get my 
crossbow when I see folk 
comin’ outta every hut. 
Heh, every brother, son, 
husband, and father in 
the damn town turned 
out carrying  every- 
thing from wood axes to 
kitchen knives!” 


—Rodolf Kazmer 


Melitele 


The archetypal goddess of fertility and birth, Melitele’s cult is one of the oldest in the world 
and stands despite the effort of newer faiths to subsume it. She is the classic embodiment of the 
maiden, mother, crone vision of womanhood and has a great deal in common with Freya. So 
much so that it is possible both deities are simply different aspects of the same being. Whatever 
the truth, her cult has proven resilient and expansive. Melitele is primarily worshiped in her 
aspect as a mother but her shrines may show any of her faces and her temples house three- 
sided statues displaying her in her entirety. As a guardian of women in childbirth, her name 
is frequently on the lips of women in pain, as they are tended to by her clergy. In this, she is a 
powerful protector of women, adapted from the primal beliefs of the earliest human cultures, 
merged into the form and worship of the goddess. 


The Cult of Melitele can be found throughout the Northern Kingdoms, whether in large tem- 
ples or rough, but carefully tended shrines. Although her appeal is predominantly to women, 
many men are numbered among her worshipers. Men with wives or sweethearts going through 
difficult births, or those hoping for children are especially likely to make offerings and prayers to 
Melitele. In addition, people who work closely with and depend upon the natural world for their 
living; farmers, herders, and similar may worship her in her aspect of an embodiment of kindly 
nature and fertility. 


Although the regional leadership of the cult may act according to their own guidance, the 
leaders will meet from time to time to discuss and agree on future policy and direction for the 
faith. This spirit of co-operation extends to other churches; while priests of Melitele may not agree 
completely with those of Kreve or the newer and more aggressive Eternal Fire, they debate them 
in clerical councils and attempt to foster peaceable agreements, so that their ministrations are 
unhindered. They are generally on good terms with druids and the followers of other nature-wor- 
shiping sects, recognizing their common ground and shared origins. 


The priesthood of Melitele accepts only women, though men are free to worship her and serve 
her as laypeople. There is a strong tradition of service within the cult, and you can find priests 
of Melitele working as healers and midwives or supporting populations during times of war or 
plague. The structure of the priesthood has evolved to be quite formal and fairly scientific; novices 
learn biology, botany, medicine, and arithmetic alongside the scriptures of the faith. This renders 
them eminently practical and capable in their future careers as healers and helpers. In terms of 
dress, Melitele’s priesthood wears red, gray, or white dresses or robes, with close-fitting hoods or 
wimples. During formal occasions or when they wish to be more visible, such as in war zones or 
other crises, they wear a headband over the wimple fronted by a tall, polished bronze miter. They 
frequently carry pouches with medical supplies at their belts when in their temples or satchels 
with similar when traveling. They are respected by the population, as they save lives when people 
are at their most vulnerable and are known for their practical and unflappable demeanor. 


Coram Agh Tera 


Also known as the Lionheaded Spider, Coram Agh Tera 
is revered as a deity of death, black magic, and the night. 
It is an enigmatic figure which has been depicted in many 
forms from a monstrous spider lurking in the darkness to an 
unfathomable being weaving a massive web beyond reality. 


Unlike many other deities, the Lionheaded Spider offers 
direct favors in return for dark sacrifices. Priests of Coram 
Agh Tera give themselves to this dark force in return for 
aid, spending their lives maintaining its temples in secluded 
areas of the Continent. They adorn these temples with carved 
bones and braziers of acrid green fire and act as middlemen 
between the Lionheaded Spider and the people of the Con- 
tinent. Priests of the Lionheaded Spider master the art of 
weaving potent curses and learn to induce a trance-like state 
in those who come to the temple, allowing them to bargain 
with Coram Agh Tera. Coram Agh Tera’s blessings always 
require a meaningful sacrifice of equivalent value. This price 
is communicated directly by Coram Agh Tera and rarely do 
two hopefuls receive the same price. The only guarantee is 
that this price will be bloody and will require personal sacri- 
fice. Frequently, people are drawn to the Cult of Coram Agh 
Tera when they have nowhere else to turn. When other faiths 
refuse to help, the desperate few are drawn into the Lion- 
headed Spider’s web. 


It is unknown how the cult of Coram Agh Tera was 
founded but the Church of the Eternal Fire claims that 
Coram Agh Tera is a demon manipulating the weak. How- 
ever, despite the many rumors, priest of Coram Agh Tera 
are not bloodthirsty murderers. They do not force anyone to 
sacrifice, only give them the incentive. There are, however, 
unafhiliated cultists who believe they are chosen by the Lion- 
headed Spider or have awakened another dark force trying 
to contact it. These individuals are genuinely dangerous, sac- 
rificing others in droves in hopes of gaining dark power. 


Epona 


The Lady of Horses holds sway over horses, mules, ponies, 
and those who rely upon them. Her worship is unevenly dis- 
tributed; on the Continent, she is strongly revered by those 
whose fate she governs but little elsewhere. Some aspects of 
Epona’s worship are reportedly shared by horse cults in Ofier 
and Hakland, but the details of this relation are yet uncon- 
firmed. Epona’s good graces are sought by riders, stablemen, 
farmers, and racers; anyone who lives with and uses horses 
or horse-adjacent animals. She protects and loves the beasts 
and those who harm them risk her wrath—rumors persist of 
brutal owners beating their mounts and being found tram- 
pled into the sod in the morning. Epona is associated with 
fertility, both as it pertains to horses and also crops, making 
her doubly important to those working the land. Farmers 
will invoke her name in hope of a healthy foal and when fol- 
lowing the plow behind their hardworking mare to encour- 
age a bountiful harvest. 


One specific aspect of the goddess is venerated by sol- 
diers; this started with cavalrymen but spread downward 
through the ranks of many continental militaries over time. 
In this aspect, Epona appears as an archer on horseback, 
standing as a protective force for those that fight in defense 
of their homes. Homemade altars to Epona sometimes 
spring up in barracks and military encampments, and her 
ceremonies are often conducted by devoted cavalry officers 
before great battles. Outside of the military, Epona’s worship 
includes people of all genders, all of whom are skilled at rid- 
ing and handling horses. There is no dedicated priesthood of 
the Lady of Horses but particularly pious knights, farmers, 
and travelers have been known to dedicate themselves to her 
worship. These acolytes travel the Continent performing fer- 
tility ceremonies and animal blessings in Epona’s name and 
tending to her shrines which usually stand on roadsides and 
frequently include natural springs. 


Lilvani 


In centuries past Lilvani was worshiped in the North as God- 
dess of the Moon and of peaceful death and burials. Her cult 
was particularly prevalent in Ellander, Nazair, Mettina, and 
Velen, the latter housing a large temple to her in the cave 
system near Toderas. Unfortunately, this ancient goddess fell 
out of favor and her temples were neglected and destroyed, 
as much by time as by rivals. Many suggest that the wor- 
ship of Melitele was the primary factor in the organic demise 
of the older cult, as her worship spread widely among the 
women of the Continent. Some even go so far as to say that 
Melitele is another face of Lilvani or vice versa. 


Where Lilvani is still depicted it is as a naked, beauti- 
ful woman with a somber expression on her face, but with 
her arms spread in welcome. Her visage can still be found 
in ancient crypts and other burial places and her shrines in 
alcoves and caves where the moon can shine upon them, 
directly or through holes carved in the roof. One of the only 
remaining artifacts of Lilvani is the Moon Blade, a powerful 
silver sword blessed by one of the Goddesses few surviving 
priests to combat a powerful demon. 


The priesthood of Lilvani tended toward women but also 
numbered a significant proportion of men. Historically they 
were involved in preparing the dead for burial and making 
sure that the appropriate rites were followed. In the heyday 
of the cult, worshipers would gather at shrines to observe 
a cycle of ceremonies tied to the phases and forms of the 
moon. A ritual of protection against evil on the night of the 
New Moon and a jubilant celebration on the night of the Full 
Moon with fertility ceremonies dedicated to Harvest Moons 
and cleansing rituals performed on the nights of Eclipses. 


Lilvani’s priesthood is not completely extinct but has 
dwindled to the dedicated few. A low-level of belief may run 
through family lines descending from more powerful wor- 
shipers, though many of her duties have been subsumed into 
the worship of Melitele. 


Morrigan 


Morrigan, known to some as the Queen of the Veil, is an 
ancient goddess of war, knowledge, fate, spirits, and magic. 
Reliefs of this warrior goddess were first found among the 
menhirs of the Dauk people of Nimnar Valley. Similar depic- 
tions have been found as far south as Angren and in caves on 
the islands of Skellige suggesting that her worship was once 
widespread among early humans. The modern worship of 
Morrigan is relegated to small remote communities across 
the Northern Realms though interactions with the traders of 
the Far North suggest that she is more commonly worshiped 
beyond the Dragon Mountains. 


The Queen of the Veil is depicted as being a wise mon- 
arch, capable of outright bloodshed but also possessed of the 
wisdom to understand when guile and cunning were more 
useful. She is depicted as wearing heavy armor of metal and 
leather and carrying a bearded axe. Her symbol and sacred 
creatures are ravens, and her followers revere them. 


When humans from the Landing of Exiles expanded into 
Angren, they discovered Ard Gwyd, a forested mountain 
among the Slopes with the ruins of an ancient fort at it’s peak. 
The ruins showed signs of having once been a grand fortress 
and the remains of tattered tapestries and ruined murals 
depicted Morrigan. At the heart of the ruin stood a massive 
sycamore tree growing at a convergence of earth ley lines. 
The explorers were soon forced abandon the ruin when an 
unknown force began to stir, darkening the sky with a terri- 
ble storm and a vicious flock of ravens. 


Morrigan no longer has a priesthood, but her tenets live 
on in her sages who are knowledgeable in battle tactics, his- 
tory, and rituals of magic. These sages believe that magic 
permeates all things but is a naturally chaotic force that can 
only be controlled by a clever mind, a strong will, and stron- 
ger conviction. They consider knowledge and courage to be 
the key to success in all things but stress that respect is para- 
mount, especially the respect of the dead. 


Nehaleni 


nan 


VN 


Nehaleni, or Nehalenia in the South, is a goddess of travel 
and divination whose worship is thought to have origi- 
nated with a nomadic human culture from the Mag Deira 
Plains in the time before Mettina joined the Nilfgaardian 
Empire. These nomads prayed to Nehaleni to protect them 
on their journeys and to guide their caravans to prosperous 
lands. These travelers roamed the Continent from Cintra to 
Maecht and as they traded with traveling merchants, sailors, 
and ferrymen the worship of Nehaleni spread. 


While Nehaleni’s cult has always been far from powerful, 
many people court her favor before setting out on a jour- 
ney, and she is also venerated by diviners and fortune tellers. 
Nehaleni is primarily worshiped at crossroads or at points of 
embarkation such as ports. Those calling upon her hoping 
for a safe journey may burn sacrificial loaves of bread baked 
in the shape of boars, calves, and fish which act as stand ins 
for the animal sacrifices of other, more visceral deities. 


Images depict Nehaleni as a young, joyful woman, 
wrapped in a traveling cloak, carrying a carved wooden staff 
and a compass. At her heel is a large hound which stares 
adoringly at her. Among worshipers of Nehaleni, dogs are 
considered symbols of good fortune and are often kept as 
companions. Sheep dogs and wolf hounds especially. 


Nehaleni’s has no clergy but her few devoted worshipers 
embark on pilgrimages across the Continent, aiding travelers 
and performing divinations in hopes of earning prosperity. 
In line with ancient traditions, they show their dedication 
to Nehaleni by tossing a coin or rolling dice to make major 
decisions. While these pilgrims are often adept at divination, 
they also offer their services as guides to accompany travelers 
on uncertain paths and to find safe routes through swamps, 
forest, and avalanche-prone mountains. Those lucky enough 
to encounter such pilgrims in their travels, often encourage 
them to join their company, believing that they bring them 
good fortune in their travels. 


The Prophet 
Lebioda 


The cult of the Prophet Lebioda started when he was but a 
simple shepherd. He wandered the Continent, telling para- 
bles about life, gods, and men, and preaching sermons with 
an emphasis on kindness and compassion. In short order he 
built up something of a following. Contemporary accounts 
hold him as a kind man, whose calling was to persuade those 
who would listen that they should be nice to each other. 


Lebioda’s mortal life ended unpropitiously at the jaws of 
a dragon who swallowed him whole while he attempted to 
dissuade it from devastating a village. After the prophet’s 
demise, some loyal followers ventured to where the dragon 
left its spoor and retrieved his remains. These were carefully 
cleaned and housed in a reliquary that is now stored in the 
Great Temple in Novigrad, where it is displayed during festi- 
vals. The faithful, at this time, are permitted to kiss the relic. 


Acolytes of the Prophet spread his worship both during 
his lifetime and subsequently. Notable among these was Saint 
Plegmund, who brought Lebioda’s philosophy to Toussaint, 
a region he had visited and loved. The Saint’s visits were 
marked with spectacular miracles, including the healing of 
severed limbs and deathly illness. All this while preaching 
love and compassion and listening to the needs and prayers 
of his believers. Plegmund converted the whole duchy to the 
worship of Lebioda, and the people erected a vast monu- 
ment to Lebioda on the banks of the Sansretour River and a 
temple in Beauclair. 


Lebioda is widely revered across the Continent and his 
teachings have been adopted and adapted to serve many 
other churches. The Eternal Fire, which has the Great Temple 
of Novigrad as its headquarters, has been especially keen on 
using his writings to fill the philosophical gaps in its message. 
Incorporating these books into its holy texts has added a layer 
of mercy and compassion to its otherwise hardline preaching. 


Svalblod 


Before the worship of Freya and the full dedication of the 
Skelligers to honorable bloodshed and the joy of battle, 
some followed a darker and more visceral deity, Svalblod. 
This entity, a distorted and furious mixture of bear and man, 
reveled in the pain and slaughter of battle. Svalblod’s wor- 
shipers included warriors, but his ties to nature, red in tooth 
and claw, attracted druids fallen to the more brutal aspects of 
their faith. Some worshipers could shape-shift into gigantic 
bears when the blood lust took them, the better to rip and 
claw their foes to pieces. Legends held these powers came 
from a rite wherein worshipers took hallucinogenic herbs 
and offered themselves to cave bears, who would consume 
them. This deadly ritual was said to bond the berserker’s soul 
with that of the bear. 


The jarls took steps, distressed at the vicious cruelty Sval- 
blod inspired in their people. Most of the cult was wiped 
out, the cultists sentenced to death. Tied to their ships and 
sent without sail or means of navigation into the teeth of 
the stormy seas, their fate was intended to deter any further 
deviants from taking up the torch in the future. But a cult of 
blood and strength will always hold an appeal to some, and 
not all the altars were destroyed. Warriors, brigands, lovers 
of violence, and human monsters abandon much of their 
humanity to join the cult despite the price Svalblod demands 
in blood and cannibalistic feasts. 


There are rumors that the heart of Svalblod’s worship on 
Ard Skellige is once again active. His priests, clad in furs and 
dried blood, exist only to slake Svalblod’s thirst for red death 
and revel in the power he grants in return. While the cult is 
still treated with fear and disdain, bloodthirsty warriors who 
can transform into bears are a useful tool when war comes 
for the jarl who dares to use them. Some even claim that Ber- 
serkers loyal to Svalblod live amongst the people of Skellige, 
slipping away in the night to perform their blood sacrifices. 


Veyopatis 


\ 


Veyopatis is an ancient, protective deity whose worship- 
ers relied upon him to keep them safe throughout what is 
now the Pontar Valley. The cult of Veyopatis has lessened as 
newer gods took over and people spread more widely, but he 
is still revered by a few of those who live alongside the great 
Pontar river. He stands as the embodiment of the river val- 
ley, capable of calm protection and capricious cruelty, as the 
moods of a river may change along its length. 


J 


As human populations arrived and migrated across the 
lands, they stayed close to the rivers. The land was fertile 
and the visibility good, so they could see danger coming, 
unlike the woods which housed all manner of monster. As 
settlements expanded along the valley and into the wild for- 
ests, carvings of Veyopatis were used to mark the bound- 
aries beyond which danger lurked. Camps became villages 
and then towns; stable and better defended. Worn poles 
with Veyopatis’ face carved into them may be seen in the 
undergrowth where the forest reclaimed the land outside 
their walls. The appearance of Veyopatis is a scowling man’s 
face with an open mouth, as if shouting or blowing, his fear- 
some image being held to have defensive properties. Coming 
across such a carving is disturbing, stumbling into one of his 
larger shrines in the middle of the forest, with wild eyes and 
gaping maw is an experience. 


Veyopatis has no official priesthood but a few village 
elders around the Pontar Valley still perform his rituals 
for community protection and good health at his shrines. 
Veyopatis has taken the position of a protective household 
spirit in the Pontar Valley, even where the people worship 
other gods. During rituals, wise men and women sometimes 
wear wide belts of cured, woven river-grasses, and medal- 
lions bearing his face. These are carved from river pebbles, 
and the less carving they need, the more powerful they are 
believed to be. 


The Priest Profession 


Social Standing 


Priests are considered Equal by those who 

respect their deity but are Tolerated by 

those who don't and Hated and Feared by 

those who hate magic and don't respect 
their deity. 


Initiate of the Gods (EMP) 


The churches of the world are often 
warm and inviting places which aid their 
communities and welcome new converts. 
A Priest can roll Initiate of the Gods at a 
DC set by the GM at churches of the same 
faith to get free lodging, healing, and other 
services at the GM’s discretion. Initiate of 
the Gods also works when dealing with 
members of the same faith, though they 
will likely be able to offer less than a fully 
supplied church. At the GM’s discretion, 
Initiate of the God will also work with 
worshipers of related deities. 


“In this temple, I give the orders. I 
usually ensure my orders don't con- 
flict too much with Hereward’s poli- 
tics, as far as those politics are logical 
and understandable. In this case they 
are irrational, so I won't treat them 
any more seriously than they deserve.” 

—Nenneke 


Alright, so perhaps I haven't been as accurate in 
my descriptions of the magic wieldin’ folk as I 
coulda been. Heh, Glynnis set me straight on a 
few things and I suppose I ought to set the record 
straight myself. While they may not seem all that 
different to the average folk like myself, priests 
and druids are worlds apart. Priests are magic 
users who gain their power from the gods, or at 
least they say they do. From what Glynnis says, 
the facts ain't exactly holdin up. But wherever 
they get the fuel they make the fire in their own 
special way, heh. Ya see, for a priest it’s all about 
belief. Belief in yer god, belief in yourself, belief 
in your message, all that sorta stuff. For some, 
that belief gets channeled straight down the 
middle as divine power. These are the preachers 
ya see managin flocks in town squares all over 
the Continent. Born leaders, whose faith lets em 
pull off all sorts of magical hijinks. Rumor has it, 
they even get messages from the gods but I ain't 
so sure how much stock I put in that, heh. Then 
ya got the cultists, the ones who ain't exactly 
lucky enough to worship a mainstream deity. 
Might be death cultists of Coram Agh Terra or 
just worshipers of Melitele in the South. Either 
way, their faiths gotta persevere against a world 
that wants ‘em gone. You'll find theses priest in 
private, hidden shrines, givin’ secret sermons to 
their followers to bolster their faith and move 
em to action. The ones ya really gotta watch out 
for are the fanatics, heh. Sure, they're convincin 
but that convinciw usually leads to inquisitions 
and angry mobs burnin’ down slums, and broth- 
els, and anybody else the priest don’t like. They 
usually like to keep a cohort of “apostles” nearby 
too so they ain't easy to dethrone either. 


-Rodolf Kazmer 


Defining Skill 
Initiate of the Gods 
Vigor Threshold 


Magical Perks 


2 Novice 
Invocations 


2 Novice Rituals 
2 Low Danger 
Hexes 


components 


Double Woven 
Gambeson 


The Priest Skill Tree 


Defining Skill: Initiate of the Gods (EMP). 


The churches of the world are often warm and inviting 
places which aid their communities and welcome new con- 
verts. A Priest can roll Initiate of the Gods at a DC set by 
the GM at churches of the same faith to get free lodging, 


healing, and other services at the GM’s discretion. Initiate 


Cultist Preacher Fanatic 
Mystagogue (EMP) Blood Rituals (WILL) 


When ina settlement, a Priest can 
spend a day and roll Mystagogue at a 
DC based on the settlement to build a 
shrine to their deity that attracts people 
and converts them to their religion. 
The GM determines how many people 
join. Additionally, while within 20m 
of this shrine, the Priest can use the 
shrine as a Focus with a value of 3. 


Cult Mystery (WILL) 


At higher levels, a Priest is shown 
the inner workings of their religion 
and are privy to some of its 
secrets. The Priest’s cult mystery 
depends on the type of religion 
they follow. Refer to the Cult 
Mystery table to know which one. 


Blessings (WILL) Precognition (WILL) 


A Priest can bless a group of people 
through a 1-hour ceremony. 

At the end of the ceremony, they roll 
Blessings at a DC:16. For one day 
afterward, a number of people equal 
to the Priest’s Blessings level gain 
bonuses as per the Blessings table. 


A Priest can become more in tune 
with their god, gaining 1 point of 
Vigor threshold per skill level in 
Divine Power up to level 9. At the 
10th level in Divine Power, you raise 
your Vigor Threshold by 5 bringing 
it to a total of 16. Divine Power can 
be trained like any other skill. 


Divine Authority (EMP) 


The peasants and common folk of the 
world see Priests as agents of the gods’ 
will. A Priest can add their Divine 
Authority to their Leadership checks if 
they are in an area where their religion 
is worshiped. Even when outside such 
areas of worship, a Priest adds half 
this value, due to their presence 


At the will of the GM, a Priest 
can be overcome by visions of the 
future, sending them into a catatonic 
state for 3 rounds. After this time 
the Priest can roll Precognition at 
a DC set by the GM to decipher 
the visions that they are stricken 
by. Such visions are composed 
of symbolism and metaphors. 


of the Gods also works when dealing with members of the 
same faith, though they will likely be able to offer less than 
a fully supplied church. At the GM’s discretion, Initiate of 
the God will also work with worshipers of related deities. 


A Priest casting a ritual can make a 
Blood Ritual check against the casting 
DC of the ritual. If they succeed, they 

can cast the ritual without required 

alchemical substances by sacrificing 
5 HP in blood per missing unit of 
alchemical substance. This blood 
can come from others but must be 
spilled at the time of the ritual. 


Fervor (EMP) 


A Priest can roll Fervor against a 
target's current INTx3. On a success, 
the rallying power of the Priest’s 
words grants 1d6 temporary health 
for every point rolled over the DC 
(maximum 5). This lasts for as many 
rounds as their Fervor x2 and only 
works once per target per day. 


Word of God (EMP) 


A Priest can roll Word of God to 
convince people that they are speaking 
directly for the gods. Anyone who 
fails to defend with Resist Coercion 
sees the Priest as a messiah and 
follows along as an apostle. A Priest 
can have as many apostles as their 
Word of God value. In combat, use 
bandit stats for apostles without stats. 


Settlement Table 


Deities of the Witcher World 


Eternal Fire, Kreve, Great Sun, 
Melitele, Prophet Lebioda 


Organized Churches 


Dana Meadbh, Epona, 
Freya, Lilvani, Morrigan, 
Nehaleni, Veyopatis 


Old Gods 


Coram Agh Tera, Svalblod 


Guiding Your Apostles 


The apostles gained through the Word of God ability gen- 
uinely believe that you are the conduit of whatever deity you 
follow. While this makes them incredibly loyal it can sometimes 
be difficult if you try to use them for your own gain as they will 
expect you to act in accordance with the doctrine and teachings 
of their deity. 


Any time you give a truly strange or uncharacteristic com- 
mand to your apostles, you must make a Word of God check 
at a DC set by the GM. If you fail, your apostles will still carry 
out the command but a seed of doubt has been planted in their 
minds. On the third consecutive time you are forced to make 
this check and you fail your apostles become disillusioned and 
leave you. If your third failure is a fumble your apostles will 
brand you as a heretic or a false messiah and attack you. 


Examples of conflicts of interest include: commanding fol- 
lowers of Melitele to torture or kill seemingly undeserving peo- 
ple, commanding followers of the Eternal Fire to save or aid 
Elderfolk or mages, commanding followers of the Great Sun to 
go against the word of the Nilfgaardian Emperor, etc. In most 
cases, the teachings of each deity is fairly clearly spelled out in 
their description but if there is any confusion the GM has final 
say on what is and isn’t a conflict of interest. 


Cult Mystery 


Type of Priesthood Cult Mystery 


The Priest has been initiated 
into the higher workings of 
your church. They can add 

their Cult Mystery level to their 
Initiate of the Gods checks. 


Organized 
Churches 


The Priest has been shown 
the ways of old magic. When 
they craft a ritual, they can roll 
both a Cult Mystery check and 
a Ritual Crafting check and 
take the highest of the two. 


Old Gods 


Secrecy is key. When someone 
tries to discern the Priest’s true 
faith or their motives through 
magic, they must roll against the 
Priest's Minor Mystery check. 
If they fail, the Priest makes 
them believe what they choose. 
Against non-magical scrutiny, the 
Priest can add their Cult Mystery 
level to their Deceit checks. 


Dark Cults 


Blessings 


The Priest empowers their 
followers with the divine 
authority of their church. On 
a success, they gain a +4 to 
Leadership and +4 to Reputation. 


Organized 
Churches 


The Priest empowers their 
followers with a blessing that 
shields their mind and bodies. 
On a success, they gain a +3 to 
SP and +2 to Resist Magic. 


Old Gods 
The Priest empowers their 
De eeu followers with a blessing of 
celerity. On a success, they gain a 
+4 bonus to Stealth and Initiative. 


} 


ra 
Wine or Wisdom 


1270, Loc Grim ¢ Transcribed by Alec Von Karst 


ant 


Glynnis straightened her sleeve for the third time, smoothed her hair, and 
endeavored not to give an empty room any sign she was intimidated. 


It had been nearly half an hour since the young servant, neatly clad 
in their approved black uniform, had escorted her into this haven of 
wealth and calculated displayed power. She was calling upon Incan- 
descent Bertrand de Grym, patriarch of the Summer Capital of the 
Nilfgaardian Empire. Glynnis idly wondered if that was his given name 
or adopted from the city to cement his position. 

De Grym’s study was a medley of rich, honeyed tones and plush 
comfort. Bookshelves lined one whole wall, filled with leather-bound 
treatises and collections of sermons. The windows’ subtle tint threw 
golden light across the room, and they were thick enough that the street 
noise couldn't enter this sanctuary. The Incandescent was far above the 
petty concerns of the populace. 

Glynnis sighed inwardly, where it wouldn't show. The chanting of the 
service de Grym had been presiding over had long since faded. She recog- 
nized the delay for what it was; not a power-play, that implied competi- 
tion. He was making certain Glynnis knew where she, and by extension, 
her school, stood in the grand scheme. Something she had learned over 
her two centuries; humans did like to assert their dominance. 

After roughly another age of the world, the door opened and in 
strode the gentleman himself. Incandescent Bertrand was tall, solidly 
built, and with a face just lined enough to convey an air of authority 
and an expression of benevolent condescension. 

At first glimpse his hair appeared a silky, flowing golden blonde, fall- 
ing to his shoulders, but as he entered his room, he lifted the ceremonial 
wig off and passed it back to his servant without a glance. The youth 
smoothed a few stray hairs and set the wig carefully upon the stand on 
the Incandescent’ desk. Silently, the servant departed but almost at once 
returned with a burnished silver tray, bearing a carafe of wine, glasses, 
and a matching silver fruit basket laden with oranges and golden grapes. 
They arranged these on the central table with practiced speed before 
retreating, bowing to the Incandescent’ back as he examined himself in 
the mirror. 

“So, Director Var Treharne—Glynnis? What brings you to my 
humble suite? Ah, please, sit. Help yourself to wine and fruit, you look 
in need of refreshment.” 

He gestured to the smaller of two armchairs, taking the more com- 
modious seat opposite and self-consciously straightening his belted robe 
of office. ‘The style left ample room at the chest to show the tailoring of 
his dark velvet doublet and the heavy porcelain mask that was both a 
symbol and ceremonial wear. The shiny white face with its gold-rimmed 
eyes and rayed Sun upon the forehead stared at Glynnis. She did as 
requested, pouring a measure of the pale wine, the jug chilled enough 
to leave a sheen of water on her hand. Sitting bolt upright in her chair, 
she gripped the stem of her glass and tried to appear composed. 

“Incandescent Bertrand, thank you for agreeing to meet with me. I 
value the friendly relations between Gweison Haul and the church, and 
it is regarding my school I wish to speak.” 

“Indeed? Are you experiencing difficulties? I’m sure the work you 
do there is appreciated.” De Grym poured a large glass of wine, snagged 
a few grapes, and relaxed into his chair. 

“No difficulties—not yet, at least” Careful woman; remember, the 
church is never in the wrong. “It is about some of my students.” 

“Rambunctious young lads?” Amusement filled de Grym'’s words. 
‘I'm not sure I can help you if they're lacking proper discipline.” 

Glynnis stood on a retort, keeping her tone level. The stem of the 


glass was sharp under her fingers and she deliberately relaxed her hand. 

“Lads and ladies, yes. But their discipline is not a problem to bring 
to you, Incandescent. This is more a matter of teaching styles. It has 
come to my attention that several of my students have been attending 
meetings with your initiates. I'm concerned that this may distract them 
from their lessons.” 

“Surely outside their studies, your students’ time’s their own? Id 
have thought opening their minds to all the possibilities their talents 
may offer would be of interest to you? Unless, of course, you fear the 
competition.” 

There was a smile in the man’s voice, but it didn’t quite touch his 
eyes. Glynnis nearly rolled hers, refusing to step into the trap. Respect 
the man who could ruin your reputation forever...or worse. 

“I would not dream of suggesting we compete for these children. 
Merely that by showing them a different method of wielding Magic, 
they may become confused at a critical moment to the detriment of 
themselves and those around them.” 

“My dear Glynnis, if they're distracted in your lessons, perhaps that’s 
a sign they're better suited to a career within the Church. We welcome 
all truly questioning minds here, and the Great Sun can warm their 
hearts and feed their souls in a way dry book-learning never could.’ He 
examined a grape and popped it in his mouth before continuing, 

“You needn't fear that they will waste their magical talents, far 
from it! By delivering miracles to the people, we show the power and 
righteousness of the true faith. The well-trained mind, schooled in the 
rituals of the Church, can be a beacon of sheltering power and show the 
benevolence of the Emperor. You Gweison Haul types are, perhaps, a 
little too dangerous to ever truly hold the trust of the populace.” 

I know a clamp-down when one is threatened, Bertrand, never 
fear. I can also spot an opening. 

‘I agree! The trained mind, with proper guidance, is absolutely the 
ideal tool for both our needs. I merely fear that your initiates, fervent 
though they are, may not be sufficiently experienced to deliver the detailed 
instruction my students require in deciding where their talents truly lie.” 

“May I, therefore, propose a compromise, Incandescent? I would 
not dream of placing barriers between my pupils and the Church but 
perhaps organized classes with your representatives, making use of our 
learning facilities, would be less ad hoc than young preachers practic- 
ing on children even younger than themselves?” 

De Grym leaned forward, a beatific smile on his face. 

“My dear girl, thatd be ideal! The different arms of the Church can 
offer their teaching, finding those among your students, gifted with the 
blessings of the divine while they're still young. It'll be simplicity itself 
to identify those better suited to a life of service, freeing you and yours 
to deal with those for whom the confines of your lessons are a better fit. 
I'll speak with my subordinates and make arrangements immediately” 

Glynnis shifted a little uncomfortably, “These classes would need 
supervision by tutors from Gweison Haul, Incandescent” 

He waved his hand, brushing her concern aside. 

“Yes, yes, I'm sure you can arrange that for yourself. Now, if you'll 
excuse me, I have to attend a meeting of the local landowners. Tedious, 
but that is the price one pays to accomplish good works, and this inter- 
view has run a little longer than I expected.” 

The Incandescent downed his wine in a mouthful, rose and, smil- 
ing, indicated the door. Moments later, Glynnis was standing in a stark 
stone hallway, as the servant waited to escort her out. Off-balance and 
wrong-footed, it left her wondering as to exactly what she had agreed. 


Druids 


Druids are fascinating but they remind me how far from the natural world 
our civilization has brought us. Predator and prey, drought and flood, 
man and beast; these are the concerns of the druids and their rituals are 
stark as a bloodied fang in their maintenance of the balance. 


Many people, North and South, who cannot 
use magic fear it for its power and potential 
misuse. This is a sensible fear. But they fear 
the flashy mages and the blood-and-thunder 
preachers. All this time druids are wander- 
ing through the woods, talking to trees, and 
hand-raising baby bunnies, or whatever else 
they do. No one knows exactly how many 
Circles of Druids exist these days but there 
are likely fewer now than before the War. 


Druidism isn’t strictly a religion. They do 
not proselytize for converts and they do not 
hold services. They are protectors of the land 
itself, or should I say, forests. ’m not aware 
of any druids of the deserts, moors, or bar- 
ren mountain tops. They have no fixed tem- 
ples or houses of healing, preferring instead 
to gather around ancient trees and standing 
stones. Their circles, under the control of a 
Hierophant (male) or Flaminika (female) take 
place deep in forests. It would be easy then to 
say they must be on the decline. 


However, there are still many deep forests 
that dot the Continent and many of them show 
signs of magical beings within them. It is not 
beyond the realm of possibility that there are 
druids who ally themselves with the dryads of 
the Brokilon forest or perhaps hide amongst 
the bogs and mires of Angren or the high 
mountain woodland of the Blue Mountains. 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


Koviri merchants have mention dealings with 
druids across the Dragon Mountains and there 
are numerous stories of travelers encountering 
hermits living in the deep forests of the Con- 
tinent. With all of this, do you truly believe 
that there are so few circles of druids? I believe 
there are far more than we know, probably in 
the deep forests of Angren, Kaedwen, or other 
sparsely populated nations. I hear the argument 
that humankind is pushing back the boundar- 
ies of the wild and that the forests are dwin- 
dling. However, thanks to the wars, villages on 
the edges of the great forests are destroyed by 
armies and many of the countryside’s inhabi- 
tants have deserted their farms for the safety of 
city walls. I would not be surprised to find that 
there are sects of druids seeking to reclaim the 
forests and lands that humanity cultivated so 
long ago. 


Druids, when encountered, appear to 
be simple children of nature. Protecting the 
forest creatures and writing many aggrieved 
letters to local authorities all the way up to 
the kings. Their cause is to care for the wilds 
and promote balance between of nature. 
Many may never see them as they go about 
maintaining the balance deep in the forests. 
Others, I have heard, are in nearly constant 
contact with isolated forest communities. It 
seems that where humanity intersects more 
thoroughly with the wild and the rule of kings 


Druids of the 
Continent 


“You may, dear reader, be 
tempted to point to the few 
circles of druids present 
on the Continent. I would 
be quick to mention that 
thanks to the ravages of 
the Nilfgaardian War, 
many areas of wilderness 
have been destroyed and 
likely many druids have 
been run out or killed. As 
of yet, our research sug- 
gests that the great oak 
Bleobheris survives with 
the druids that tend it. 
But an expedition beyond 
the front line is something 
I am most definitely not 
interested in. 

—Brandon of Oxenfurt 


Brandon’s Druid 
Theories 


“Ya may have noticed, 
Brandon's got some opin- 
ions about druids. Heh, 
Id say its all about the 
outlook. Personally, I’ve 
never cared that much 
for ‘progress’ and ‘society’ 
and all those high-minded 
ideas. Heh, If ya ask me, 
the Druids are just some 
folks tryin’ to uphold 
the old ways and keep 
humans from ruinin’ the 
land for everybody. But 
Brandon’ all about civi- 
lization and ‘advancing 
society. Id guess to him 
the druids are a threat to 
all that. Seems to be the 
way of things for plenty 
of folks. The druids are a 
reminder of the old ways 
and they stand in the way 


of progress.” 
—Rodolf Kazmer 


is weakest, the druids take it upon themselves to adjudi- 
cate disputes and settle quarrels. The most visible of these 
druids are in Skellige where they are even consulted on 
the ascension of the next king. The belligerent Skelligers 
live close to the land. They are more likely to fish and raid 
than try to subdue nature. Druids can and do make these 
livelihoods safer by affecting the weather and the sea. The 
Hierophant of this circle was at one time a member of the 
courts of both Skellige and Cintra. I imagine druidic magic 
is a great aid on sea raids to Nilfgaard. On the other hand, 
in Angren, whenever there are mishaps and accidents in 
the logging camps druidic magic is blamed. 


The magic of the druids is similar to the magic of Melitele 
and Freya. But as protectors of the forests and the balance, 
they are attuned to mobilize the powers of wind and wave, 
and all living things. In this way their spells are a little like 
the invocations of the priests except that what they worship 
is primeval life itself. They also manifest magic through the 
use of sigils, symbols inscribed in the air or on objects to 
focus magic on that spot. These are often protections of that 
section of the forest that impede those who may come to 
loot and destroy the plants and animals. I’ve heard that they 
use this kind of protection at the breeding sites of endan- 
gered animals and the headwaters of salmon streams. Do 
not touch or deface these sigils as they are said to be able to 
protect themselves. 


Druids do not distinguish between humans, elves, 
dwarves, or other elderfolk. They say that their magic is 
older than the elves, that it was here before the dwarves, and 
will remain when they are gone. There is no verifiable refer- 
ence to druids sacrifices any living thing, including humans. 
Though I would not put it past them. 


—Brandon of Oxenfurt 


The History of Druids 


James Rufus of Oxenfurt, a scholar writing long ago before 
the University was formally established wrote: “After the 
ships landed and humans spread out into the dark forests 
of the river valleys, they came across stone altars and crude 
stone arches centered around huge oak trees. The sigils and 
writing on these stones is as of yet still undecipherable but 
we believe that they were created by the Wozgor or another, 
earlier human population which had died out prior” 


While very little of this information can be substanti- 
ated, rumors persist that druids have been on the continent 
far longer than humanity. They have always lived apart 
from cities as they value the peace and harmony of the wild 


lands. These rumors suggest that in the early days, just after 
the Conjunction, members of earlier human societies such 
as the Dauk and Wozgor, became druids. Deep in the for- 
ests these druids formed circles, led by a Hierophant (male) 
or a Flaminika (female) surrounding ancient and venerable 
oak trees. They shepherded the natural world and guided 
small communities of humans around the dangers of the 
Continent to keep them from being destroyed. Much like 
the rest of the early humans the final fate of these speculated 
druids is largely unknown but modern scholars believe that 
they left signs of their presence among the menhirs of the 
Dauk and Wozgor which carried forward their teachings. 


When the next wave of humans came to the Continent they 
faced the same harsh conditions and were also preyed upon 
by the many monsters that prowled the land. In response, 
the druids of this era took up the same mantle that the dru- 
ids of old would have, attempting to strike a balance between 
allowing nature to run its course and stopping humanity from 
being utterly wiped out. These druids did not see all of the 
monsters of the Conjunction as anathema to their cause and 
perceived some of them as new facets of nature. While they 
would slay monsters to protect the balance of nature, there 
were very few that considered the existence of the monsters 
to be unnatural. More often, druids took up roles as advisors 
to chieftains, sages who kept the knowledge of their people, or 
healers of the ill. 


As humanity spread across the land, beginning to build 
cities, farms, mines, and other foundations of civilized soci- 
ety, the druids’ role began to change. Humans were no lon- 
ger in need of protection and instead, other aspects of nature 
were being encroached upon by humanity. The druids coun- 
seled the rulers of humanity to stop their reckless expansion 
but they were labeled as “archaic” and accused of slowing the 
progress of society. Gradually, their place in society was taken 
over by mages who were more pragmatic and less interested in 
preserving the balance. By the beginning of the 13th century, 
the druids had been pushed out, relegated to their remote cir- 
cles, deep in the wild. 


Over the years, druids worked to regain their influence 
over the courts of the Continent but their pleas tended to 
fall on deaf ears as few monarchs besides the kings of Skel- 
lige would halt the progress of their nation for a seemingly 
nebulous, mystical balance. By the year 1272, the majority 
of druid live in their circles, tending to the surrounding 
wildlife, communing with the natural world, and sending 
chastising missives to kings, merchants, and mages who are 
despoiling nature, fully knowing that they lack the resources 
or influence to do much about these injustices. 


Types of Druids 


The people who become druids are all drawn 
to the wild in some way. But there are many 
types of druids. The fledgling druid will grav- 
itate to the lifestyle they require. 


The druid that most people expect is a 
shabbily dressed servant of the woodland, 
standing in the way of society and trying to 
drag everyone back to the old ways. They 
have a deep connection to a particular for- 
est and spend a lot of time meditating to be 
in touch with the woods. In their spare time 
they may foster fawns or care for young chil- 
dren who have become lost. They remain 
separate from human society and only com- 
municate with the other druids of their circle. 
When they do communicate with outsiders 
it is usually by way of long letters demand- 
ing that a settlement cease it’s logging, hunt- 
ing, trapping or other ravages of the natural 
world. And there are some druids like that. 
Usually, they are people who have escaped 
from desperate lives in human society, and 
they wish to immerse themselves as deeply as 
possible in the tranquility of a healthy forest. 
These are the druids that will most discour- 
age human settlement in the forest, believing 
that humans have outgrown their place in 
nature and must be stopped from expand- 
ing further. The areas around their meeting 
grove may be set with natural deterrents 
from thorny brambles to irritating plant-life 
but these deterrents are rarely too dangerous. 
In rare cases, as these druids are pushed far- 
ther and farther into the wilds, they start to 
develop a paranoid outlook which can make 
them dangerous. There are rumors of druids 
who take a more “active” role in the protec- 
tion of nature: accosting hunters and lumber- 
jacks who enter their woods, lighting fire to 
lumberyards and hunting lodges, and using 
their magic to empower the land to fight for 
itself. These rumors are almost entirely fabri- 
cations, concocted by merchants and nobles 
looking to demonize the nature priests, but 
every few decades a small group of these more 
isolated druids gets fed up with the ambiva- 


lence of humanity. It’s not usually long before the druids in 
question are run out or killed but they leave a great deal of 
chaos in their wake which fuels the rumors of wild, danger- 
ous forest people. Being traditionally pacifists, the majority 


of druids consider these eco-warriors to be dangerous radi- 
cals, who have lost sight of the way of nature. 


The majority of druids, however, are peacefully, practical 
stewards of nature who prefer the tranquility of the forest 
and feel responsible for the creatures who live there. They 
are prodigious walkers and are familiar with each tree and 
dell, sometimes saluting them by name. These individuals 
care for the forest by healing trees and animals with magic, 


herbalism, and the accumulated lore of hundreds of years. 
They manage the growth of the trees, maintaining openings 
for the small plants to grow, prune back or remove diseased 
plants, and find water in times of drought. They protect the 
gravel beds where the salmon spawn and dress the wounds of 
injured animals, but they do not interfere with the relations 
between predator and prey. The only time these druids take 
up arms is when the balance of nature is greatly threatened. 
If a griffin moves into their forest, this is the way of nature. 
But if a fiend gets loose in the woodland and devastates tens 
of acres of forest, massacring anything it comes across, then 
the druids will intervene. Even in this drastic circumstance, 
the druids would first attempt any means necessary to calm 
the beast or lure it away, only resorting to violence as a last 
resort. The druids of the Continent are often considered 
pacifistic to a fault, loathing the idea of taking a life unnec- 
essarily. They are often content to nurse and maintain their 
great oaks and pass down the ancient wisdom of their people 
through songs and poetry. 


In small, rural communities, druids sometimes still main- 
tain their ancient roles as spiritual leaders and counselors. 
While they belong to a circle, they mediate between the vil- 
lage and the forest, making sure that the farm plots, charcoal 
makers, and fur hunters do not upset the balance and that 
the native beasts of the forest do not terrorize the villagers. 
They teach the people their foraging and healing skills, why 
different animals and plants, exist and how they contribute 
to the wholeness of the forest. They bless the fields before 
planting and after the harvest and sometimes bless babies in 
the name of the forest. In most cases, these druids are better 
educated than the people of the villages and they keep oral 
histories of the settlement. The children of the village receive 
an education if they show interest, intelligence, and the abil- 
ity to memorize long poems and songs. Many bards get their 
start this way and traveling minstrels sometimes visit these 
circles to learn the tales and legends of the land. 


Among most druid circles there are one or more druids 
that are particularly gifted with druidic magic. Frequently 
these druids rise to be the hierophant or flaminika, but not 
always. These more magically-inclined druids use their com- 
mand of nature to help their circle achieve its larger goals 
such as building sanctuaries for endangered species, regrow- 
ing damaged woodland, and cultivating stores of herbs for 
healing salves. To the druid’s way of thinking, magic is found 
in the energy of the nature is not an alien force to be feared 
or controlled. Each circle has its own magical traditions, and 
its own way of utilizing magic but unlike other magic users, 
druids do not flaunt their abilities to those outside. 


The druids of the Continent have much to offer and in many 
cases they are willing to offer their bounty under the right 
circumstances. As long as a settlement is willing to follow 
the old ways and help maintain the balance of nature, most 
druid circles are happy to tend to their wounded, help them 
with their crops. However, their staunch beliefs and rigid 
codes of conduct often make interaction with other people 
tricky. 

While the druids possess great knowledge regarding cer- 
tain aspects of the natural world their knowledge is some- 
times antiquated and many druids are unwilling to accept 
that fact. Druidic healers sometimes have disputes with uni- 
versity trained doctors who question their methods. These 
druids see their healing, whether by herbalism, magic, or 
folk medicine as an indisputable gift. They do not ask why 
white thistle makes childbirth easier because they know it 
has done so for generations and there's no reason for that to 
have changed. They maintain the knowledge of their ances- 
tors and pass it on, unquestioned. This stubborn adherence 
to the old ways can drive modern doctors to distraction, 
especially since most often the druid’s knowledge is correct. 


This rigid outlook on life has hampered the druids as 
most circles remain unwilling to compromise with the 
human societies that encroach on their forests. Many cir- 
cles have been destroyed by wars, by human expansion, 
and by the distrust of the druids by those in power. Their 
sacred oaks fall, and while some find a home in another cir- 
cle, many are left wandering. Some of these displaced dru- 
ids spend years traveling, some carrying an acorn of their 
great oak in the hopes of planting a new circle in some far 
off land where humanity may not reach them. Despite the 
destruction of their circles, druids displaced by war gener- 
ally don’t hold a grudge against either party in the conflict. 
To them, the wars raging across the Continent are no dif- 
ferent from the territory disputes between animals in the 
wild. After all, as much as they fight the idea humans, elves, 
and all other sapient races are animal just like the wolves 
and deer. 


Those druids who do get involved in politics are few 
and far between. As of the moment there are only two 
places where a druid is able to bend the ear of a monarch 
to any great degree. In Toussaint, the Duchess Anna Henri- 
etta has signed treaties with the Circle of Caed Myrkvid, 
allowing them to act as shepherds of the beautiful wildlife 
of the region. Toussaint’s forests are breathtaking and their 
famous vineyards grow in harmony with the plants and 


animals native to the land partially thanks to the druids. 
Meanwhile, off the coast of the Continent in Skellige the peo- 
ple have always lived close to the land. The worship of Freya 
compliments the druids’ beliefs and the Circle of Gedyneith 
is one of the oldest of all the existing circles. The druids of 
that circle know many weather magics and are always con- 
sulted before large fleets take any action. Hierophant Ermion 
was also an important advisor to the royal family of Cintra 
until the country was overrun by Nilfgaard. 


On the other hand, the druids of Angren are forever chal- 
lenging the locals about deforestation. When under attack 
by the foresters, the druids of Caed Dhu withdrew into the 


Lost Circles 


In the wake of the 3rd 
Northern War a number 
of smaller druid circles 
have been destroyed or 
uprooted. It is hard to 
say how many were dis- 
turbed but the numer- 
ous refugees flocking to 
the great oak Bleobheris 
would indicate many. 


dark, dangerous forests of southern Angren. 
Rumors state that they had struck a deal with 
the terrifying wildlife of the forest and lum- 
berjacks or hired swords that followed them 
didn’t emerge unscathed. Eventually the for- 
esters set fire to the forest and waited for the 


druids to emerge. They were disappointed as 
the druids had snuck out through the thickest 
forest and traveled to join the circle of Loch 
Monduirn; but that circle also eventually fell, 
forcing many druids to travel south to settle 
in Caed Myrkvid. 


Notably, there are no druidic circles 
associated with the Dwarven stronghold of 
Mahakam or the Elven lands of Dol Blath- 
anna. Besides that fact that the Dwarven 
holds in Mahakam have little natural vege- 
tation to protect and the elves traditionally 
do not partake in farming, the cultures of the 
dwarves and elves don't lend themselves to 
the need or desire for druids. Dwarves and 
elves both respect nature and some revere 
Dana Meadbh but they don't inherently see 
nature itself as divine or worthy of worship. 
Additionally, since member of both elder 


races count their lives in centuries, they are 
more prone to thinking long term than the 
short lived humans. The dwarves and elves 
are aware of the long term effects of over-har- 
vesting the natural world and are much more 
likely to live to see those consequences. To 
combat this, both races devote a great deal of 
effort to natural conservation making druids 
largely unnecessary. 


It is difficult to tell if there are druid cir- 
cles in the Nilfgaardian lands besides Caed 
Myrkvid but if there are that they are likely in 
Maecht, Ebbing, or Mag Turga. Nilfgaard made 
swift work of Maecht, avoided large sections of 
the Pereplut marsh in Ebbing, and peacefully 
absorbed Mag Turga. All three provinces have 
large areas of wilderness that could easily hide 
a druid’s circle and in most circumstances, the 
Nilfgaardians see the benefit of having druids 
in their lands. That being said, Nilfgaardian 
officials will not halt their expansion for the 
sake of the druids. Mag Turga and Angren 
are both important sources of lumber and ore 
which are used throughout the Nilfgaardian 
empire. 


“There are enclaves of elves within the Empire who 
largely govern themselves. Though I have never had 
the opportunity to visit them, my father would talk 
about them from time to time. I can't say that they 
have druids per-say but in many ways some elven sag- 
es may seem similar to the druids of the Continent.” 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


The Circle of Gwyn Carn 


Beyond the Dragon Mountains lies a frozen land of deep forests and windswept plains. The people 
who live in this land, known as the “People of the Far North” are only ever seen by the merchants 
of Kovir and Poviss and the Hengfors League. Every now and again hunters from the Far North 
cross the Dragon Mountains to trade. In these brief meetings they appear to be human with a 
sturdy appearance and a gruffness to their manner. It is clear to anyone who meets a Far North- 
erner that they hail from an inhospitable realm likely not meant for human settlement. And this 
is where the Circle of Gwyn Carn comes in. 


In more hospitable terrain, druids act as the moderators of civilized expansion, keeping 
humans and other races from destroying the delicate balance of the natural world. In the Dragon 
Mountains and beyond the role of these magic users changes ever so slightly to help civilization 
survive at relative peace with nature that would destroy them. The Circle of Gwyn Carn is located 
deep in the Dragon Mountains, in a dark coniferous forest. The druids make their home in vari- 
ous natural shelters around a tremendous oak tree called Elvanen. While very few know how the 
circle was founded, many scholars who have interacted with the circle share a vague story told to 
them by the druids about human settlers of the Dauk and Wozgor societies who traveled north 
across the Dragon Mountains and were met by a white dragon called Galvalesteith who had bent 
the beasts of the mountains to her whim. Specifics are hazy but it is said that the first druids of 
the Circle of Gwyn Carn slew Galvalesteith in defense of the valley and their brothers and sisters 
and buried her body where she fell from the sky. As they watched, a great oak sprouted from the 
burial mound and grew high into the sky, sheltering the travelers from the snow. The druids had 
done a great service to the spirit of the mountains and in turn the mountains had welcomed them. 
And so, the druids created their home around the burial mound and the great oak to shepherd the 
Dragon Mountains and all beyond. 


In early years, it’s speculated that the druids of Gwyn Carn were instrumental in helping the 
settlers of the Far North survive in the frozen wastes, teaching them how to live in harmony with 
the dangerous terrain and sheltering them against deadly monsters and terrible storms. It is said 
that this led to the modern society of the people of the Far North; focused on hunting and gather- 
ing and very skilled at traversing the wild taiga. The druids worked less to reign in the expansion 
of civilization and more to help civilization live in relative harmony with the land with druids 
acting as tribal councilors and spiritual leaders. Many believe that the humans who exist beyond 
the Dragon Mountains today may be remnants of the Dauk and Wozgor who were shepherded by 
the original druids of the circle of Gwyn Carn but that is difficult to say as both societies appear 
to have either died out or been assimilated by the Nordlings. 


When more Nordlings made their way north and began to settle in the mountainous regions 
that would become Kovir & Poviss, they came to a truce with the druids who would help them 
to settle in the mountains and guide them in living harmoniously with nature. However, this 
agreement would be largely broken when great deposits of ore were found under the mountains 
and humans began voraciously mining them out. Now, the Druids of Gwyn Carn live deep in the 
mountains attempting to rein in mining efforts by the humans and facilitate interactions between 
the Nordlings and the people of the Far North. 


The Death of 
Galvalesteith 


The story of the dru- 
ids slaying the dreaded 
white dragon Galvaleste- 
ith has been corroborat- 
ed by at least two schol- 
ars from Kovir & Poviss, 
but it is worth mention- 
ing that this story was 
circulated throughout 
the region during a 
time when the slaying 
of dragons was seen as 
a valiant endeavor un- 
dertaken by great heroes 
and its spread was large- 
ly supported by the Jew- 
eler’s Guild of Kovir & 
Poviss. One document- 
ed interview with a dru- 
id of the Circle of Gwyn 
Carn does exist which 
seems to refute this sto- 
ry, claiming that Gal- 
valesteith, was instead 
a protective being who 
struck a pact with the 
druids. In return for the 
druids looking after the 
mountains Galvalesteith 
allowed the settlers to 
pass through the moun- 
tains safely. In this ac- 
count the “White Burial 
Mound” from which the 
Circle gets its name was 
created to honor Galva- 
lesteith upon her death. 


Outsiders 


To many druids, the 
Crow Clan Druids are 
largely seen as outsid- 
ers. Not to be feared 
or demonized but not 
necessarily trustworthy. 
Even for druids, watch- 
ing their kin cawing and 
shrieking at a bird is un- 
settling. 


Morrigan 


Much as Freya and Mel- 
itele are often compared 
by Continental scholars, 
the Crowmother is often 
compared to the ancient 
Continental —_ goddess, 
Morrigan. Morrigan is 
also a goddess heavily as- 
sociated with crows and 
her primary temple on 
the Continent is located 
around a large sacred 
tree. 


The Crow Clan 


Among the druids of Skellige there are those who push the boundaries of magic, beyond what 
their brothers and sisters would deem safe or necessary. These druids are often among the Crow 
Clan, an unorthodox group of druids who exist on the outskirts of the Skelliger Druid culture. 


While the druids of the Circle of Gedyneith focus their efforts on the shepherding of the nat- 
ural world and the clans of Skellige, the Crow Clan seems to focus entirely on a quest for esoteric, 
hidden knowledge. Druids of this clan believe that the Druids of Gedyneith are cowards who have 
chosen to close their minds and exist in ignorance for fear of allowing themselves to be enlight- 
ened. They believe that the world holds secrets yet undiscovered by humanity and that the key 
to unlocking them is in communion with the noble crow. The crow stands as an observer of the 
world at large, gathering in great flocks and sharing knowledge of the world we see and the world 
beyond. Acolytes of the Crow Clan are quick to claim that much like cats, which can sense and 
absorb ambient magic, crows too have a form of 6th sense which allows them to see into a realm 
beyond human understanding. 


To bolster their connection to the crows, Crow Clan druids study extensively in alchemy and 
Crow Clan alchemists are skilled and often quite radical, mixing elixirs of toxic Crow's Eye Rhi- 
zome and trying to attain alchemically induced trances to commune with the birds. Many Crow 
Clan Druids will even go so far as to work tirelessly to learn the complex language of the crows. 
It’s not unusual to find one of their number attempting to communicate with a group of crows 
roosting nearby. It is still largely unknown to outsiders how effective this communication is, but 
the Crow Clan does claim to have gained great insight into matters beyond human understanding. 


At this point, the Crow Clan’s obsession with crows is apparent but its origin isn’t. The foun- 
dation of this obsession can be traced back to the Flaminika of the Crow Clan, known as the 
Crowmother. The Crowmother is an ancient woman who has been the Crow Clan’s leader since 
its inception centuries ago. The Crowmother is looming and frightening, with feathers sprouting 
from her skin and scant clothing that appears to be made of leather with a peaked hood and a veil 
covering the top of her face. To most she would appear monstrous but to the Crow Clan she is 
their leader and a maternal figure. 


The Crowmother is easily the oldest and most powerful Flaminika in recorded history and 
rumors abound as to her origin. Some say that she is a crow who took human form, while oth- 
ers say she’s just a powerful druid who learned how to speak with the crows. Still others believe 
the Crowmother is a powerful relict who has made her home on Skellige because of the lack of 
witchers and the more zealous Skelligers believe that she was once a powerful deity cast down to 
the realm of mortals by Freya centuries ago. Whatever her origin, the Crowmother is a force to be 
reckoned with and her clan of druids are unwavering in their pursuit of knowledge. 


When Crow Clan druids interact with others it is usually in the process of gathering ingredi- 
ents for elixirs or advising local community members. As with many other druids it is rare that 
a Crow Clan druid will leave their home, but they can be found wandering the roads of Skellige 
or even occasionally on the continent where they will often say they are following the guidance 
of the crows or the Crowmother. Unfortunately, they are usually unwilling to explain what that 
might mean for themselves or the other people around them. Luckily, these druids rarely cause 
serious trouble. 


The Circle of Bleobheris 


In the dark forests north of Gors Velen stands the great oak, Bleobheris, believed to be the first tree 
on the Continent. Its broad branches shelter an enormous clearing which is the center of a druid 
circle which dates to before the human ships arrived. For a long time, the circle existed quietly, 
in a deep, dark forest surrounded by bogs and swamps. It is unknown exactly who made up this 
circle of druids but some speculate that it was a center of worship and society for early humans. 


Eventually the Landing of Exiles brought new groups of humans who spread throughout the 
region, looking to build farms and villages. But the bogs and swamp lands could not be plowed, 
and groups of lumberjacks sent into the forests were run out again by wild animals. Eventually 
those few successful settlers sent brave individuals into the forest to parley with whatever was 
guarding the wilderness. They approached humbly and were met by the druids. An agreement was 
reached where the druids would help the settlers start some small farms in the bogs and swamp 
lands and allow the settlers to carefully manage a part of the forest and cut trees only as part 
of the management plan. In return the farmers supplied sacrifices for the altar and other trade 
items the druids might need. Over time this relationship flourished. The Druids healed the locals, 
blessed their fields, and protected them from dangerous forest creatures. Many of the halfling 
druids moved to live among the farmers, helping them with their fields and livestock. The locals 
protected the forest from outsiders but over time the area under Bleobheris’ leafy canopy became 
a famous meeting place for any that honor the ancient oak. Anyone of any race is welcome in the 
circle as long as they keep the peace. People honor Bleobheris by posting letters and wishes on 
papers attached to the great oak. Because of the great history of the oak, even though it is out of 
the way, many famous bards have played under its enormous umbrella of limbs. 


The fate of the Bleobheris circle is uncertain currently. War with Nilfgaard has decimated 
most of Temeria, but the forest still stands, and many refugees have been taken in by the druids. 
In fact, the refugees of many smaller druid circles destroyed by the war have also found their 
way to Bleobheris seeking shelter. Fortunately, the forest is not really on the way to any of Nilf- 
gaard’s goals and there is little to conquer so the circle has survived. The people of the area now 
cherish the druids who protect them from beasts and war. They flee to the forest to avoid press 
gangs who would take any men for the army. The druids’ relationship with the forest helps them 
feed many whose homes have been destroyed. The druids teach the refugees how to tend and 
gather plants that can replace substances they now lack, including herbal substances that stop 
infection, salves that heal burns, cuts, and muscle aches, and even dyes for clothing. When ban- 
dits approach the forest, druidic magic allows the Hierophant to send them away with a loud 
threatening voice. In the very worst situations, the Hierophant can cast a plague on invaders. At 
this circle, as well as others, many people try to pressure the druids to use their magic to fight 
armies, but the druids’ magic is based on their faith in the forest, not the world of man and the 
most they will do is foster peace. 


In the few times military detachments or roving free companies have come to the forest of 
Bleobheris with violence in mind, they have been quickly turned away by the druid circle. One 
Nordling free company recounts tales of entering the forest after a group of refugees only to be 
met with a group of druids who used some powerful magic to make them sit down and negotiate. 


Halfling Druids 


While halflings are fa- 
mously magic deterrent 
and thus incapable of 
casting invocations or 
drawing sigils, they are 
also considered to be 
among the most nature 
attuned races besides the 
elves. There are a hand- 
ful of halfling families 
who now serve among 
the druids of the Circle 
of Bleobheris, after hav- 
ing been run out of their 
homes after the Landing 
of the Exiles hundreds of 
years ago. 


Angrenian 
Tree Cats 


One thing that the dru- 
ids brought from An- 
gren was a species of 
green and brown speck- 
led, arboreal feline, en- 
dangered by logging. 
They are slightly larger 
than a house cat and 
make great companions 
for the druids. 


Wickermen 


“To my knowledge, the 
druids of Caed Myrkvid 
have rarely used this ‘it- 
ualistic form of execu- 
tion. Perhaps only once 
or twice from the stories 
of druids I have had the 
pleasure of encountering. 
It is truly a shame that 
they would feel the need 
to threaten it at all” 


-Glynnis var Treharne 


The Circle of Caed Myrkvid 


Caed Myrkvid lies in a valley in the mountains of Toussaint. Looking down upon it you see only 
a blanket of fog. It twists and curls in ways that remind you that it is not natural. If you have been 
to the dryad forest of Brokilon this would look familiar. Riding down through the fir forests, 
one descends through fog into a thick, damp forest of beech and alder, dotted with venerable 
oaks. Ferns and blackberry vines grow thickly between the trees and an unnamed river marks the 
boundaries of the druid’s sanctuary. Do not think to cross this river without good reason for the 
circle of Caed Myrkvid is probably the most powerful left on the Continent. Like most circles, it is 
ancient and was founded by people or races unknown before written history began. Its isolation 
meant that for centuries the Druids of Caed Myrkvid did not have to teach people how to live in 
harmony with nature and the land is so fertile that plants and mosses grow on top of each other. 
In a way, the druids here are more in service to the forest than to human settlers. 


Most druids now in Caed Myrkvid are refugees from two other circles that existed in the north. 
The circle of Caed Dhu was in Angren on the bank of the Yaruga. But the druids suffered during 
the wars and the growing population wished to drive them out. After all, lumber is the “Angre- 
nian Gold” that fuels trade in Angren and the lumberjacks weren't interested in maintaining the 
balance. When driven out, the druids moved on to Loch Monduirn in Sodden. Sodden, of course, 
has had armies fighting back and forth over it many times since then and during one of these 
skirmishes the druids once again moved on bringing with them the refugees of the original Circle 
of Loch Monduirn. In 1267, the Caed Myrkvid circle accepted the Druids of Caed Dhu and Loc 
Monduirn as refugees. The refugees held a grudge against the human populations that drove them 
out and when one of their number became flaminika of Caed Myrkvid, the protections of the cir- 
cle increased. As part of those protections the Druids of the Circle used a great deal of magic to 
create walking oak tree monsters that follow the directions of the druids. 


This brings up one of the most controversial stories about druids. For years, humans who 
hated the druids spread the rumor that they captured invaders, jailed them in a huge wicker statue 
and then set the wicker on fire, burning their victims alive. This story was used against the druids 
for many years but apparently the new flaminika of Caed Myrkvid decided that if everyone spread 
these lies about them, then they would make it a reality to make sure no one attempted to push 
them out of Caed Myrkvid. 


In their new home, the Druids of Caed Myrkvid have common dealings with the people 
of Toussaint which has been both beneficial and troublesome. Most notably, the great wines 
of Toussaint have always been aged in Beauclair Oak but harvesting the sacred oaks for wine 
barrels put the Cooper’s Guild at odds with the druids. At first this did cause friction as the 
druids refused to let woodsmen into the depths of the forest which in turn led to many calling 
to the Duchess to displace or destroy the circle. Fortunately, the rulers of Toussaint have long 
been fond of the unspoiled wilderness of the grove and the druids were able to prove themselves 
excellent caretakers by mitigating the catastrophe caused by the rerouting of the Sansretour 
River some years ago. And so, they struck a deal. Treaties were signed between Toussaint and 
the Druids of the Circle. The Groves of Caed Myrkvid were established as a sanctuary, fully 
autonomous in their internal affairs. The Cooper's Guild is allowed to harvest oaks but only 
under strict supervision. Also, as part of the agreements the druids cultivate and harvest useful 
plants for the ruling house of Toussaint. 


The Circle of Gedyneith 


Nowhere in the world are druids more respected than in the Skellige Isles. Where druids are 
generally seen as outsiders and agitators by Nordling rulers and Nilfgaardian officials, they are 
viewed as trusted advisors and spiritual mentors by the Jarls of Skellige. Druids are well respected, 
handsomely accommodated, and attentively heeded by the vast majority of Skelligers. 


The largest and most influential group of druids in Skellige is the Druid Circle of Gedyneith, 
who take their name from a sacred oak growing on a hill on Ard Skellig. These druids are led by an 
elderly Hierophant named Ermion who has stood as the advisor to the throne of Skellige for many 
decades and traveled at the side of King Eist, King Bran, and Jarl Crach an Craite, even acting as 
a court-appointed druid for the Kingdom of Cintra when King Eist Tuirseach of Skellige married 
Queen Calanthe of Cintra. 


Under Ermion’s steady leadership, the Circle of Gedyneith has remained a stable pillar of 
Skellige society, often using their influence to temper the quick tempers and brash nature of the 
Skelliger people and help them survive in the harsh climate and terrain of the Skellige Archipel- 
ago. When two clans have reached a disagreement it’s not uncommon for a druid to step in to 
help them settle the situation before any bloodshed. This doesn’t always work but the attempt is 
made nonetheless. Even more commonly, farmers call upon druids to help them grow their crops, 
huntsman to guide them to good game, or sailors to calm the storms so they won't be dashed to 
pieces on the rocky shores of the islands. Many scholars believe that the Skelligers’ reverence for 
the druids stems from the fact that the Skellige Isles are inherently wild and dangerous and with- 
out the aid of a person attuned to that dangerous wilderness, colonization of such terrain would 
be a daunting process which might end in disaster. In a realm where witchers are uncommon and 
mages are almost unheard of, druids are often instrumental in running off or slaying monsters 
that threaten the Skellige society. A great warrior seeking to slay an Ekhidna or a Kraken is likely 
to visit the Circle Gedyneith first for the counsel of the druids. 


Indeed, the Druids of Gedyneith are such a foundation for the culture of Skellige that they are 
often intertwined with the other primary pillar of Skellige society, the Church of Freya. While the 
Druids of the Circle of Gedyneith do not pray to Freya for their magic and the Priestesses of Freya 
do not view the natural world around them in the same way as the druids, both faiths are able to 
come together in the care of nature and the Skelliger people. Freya herself is an ancient goddess 
who is often associated with certain aspects of nature and in that way, the relationship between the 
Church and the Circle is made easier. Often, a druid of the Circle of Gedyneith is also a worshiper 
of Freya and both groups gather at the great oak for worship and ceremonies including important 
weddings, and the crowning of the King. 


When the King of Skellige dies, the wake has rocked the halls of Kaer Trolde, and the next 
King has been chosen, the Druids of Gedyneith and the Priestesses of Freya gather under the 
bows of Gedyneith along with the Jarls of the seven Skelliger clans and any who wish to attend 
to crown the king in a ceremony that began centuries ago with the first kings of Skellige. The 
new King will reign over all Skellige with the Hierophant of the Circle of Gedyneith as their 
trusted advisor, able to keep them on the right track and prevent them from making foolish 
mistakes and costly miscalculation. 


Skelliger Druids 


Unlike their continental 
counterparts, Skelliger 
druids carry the same 
warriors spirit that all 
Skelligers do. In most 
cases, if you have done 
something to upset a 
druid of the Circle of Ge- 
dyneith you will know 
about it immediately. 
Petitions and _ strong- 
ly-worded letters are far 
from a Skelliger druid’s 
first choice when settling 
disagreements. 


Rough Skellige 
Seas 


“Heh, sailing the sea to 
Skellige ain't easy. Even if 
ya avoid the raider ships 
patrolling the Great Sea, 
you'll probably just wind 
up bein capsized by enor- 
mous waves or smashed 
on the rocky shores of the 
isles before ya even see 
land. Some folks think 
the druids're the ones who 
made the seas so rough, 
but I can’t say one way 
or the other. Heh, do my 
best to be on a ship as lit- 
tle as possible if I'm hon- 
est. Dwarves and the sea 
dont mix as far as I'm 
concerned.” 


—Rodolf Kazmer 


Druids & 
Witchers 


When humans first came 
to the Continent, druids 
would sometimes slay 
monsters to keep the 
human populations safe. 
They did this not out of 
a loyalty to humanity but 
a desire to maintain the 
natural balance and keep 
the humans from being 
wiped out. When hu- 
mans expanded beyond 
the need for this help, the 
druids stopped protect- 
ing them. When human- 
ity created witchers the 
druids saw this as a grave 
offense against nature. 
To most druids, a witch- 
er is nothing more than 
a butcher, tipping the 
scales of balance in the 
favor of humans by mas- 
sacring other creatures. 
The fact that witchers 
successfully drove many 
species to extinction 
during the Gold Age of 
Witchers only solidifies 
this belief. 


Wandering Druids 


Many people believe that wandering druids are a product of the wars which have decimated many 
of the northern countries. The truth is that there have been wandering druids as long as there have 
been druids. In the early days, just after the Landing of the Exiles and before the humans got their 
feet under themselves, forests would have gone on forever, or as they say, a squirrel could have 
traveled from Poviss to Nilfgaard without its feet touching the ground. The menhirs and remains 
of druidic circles found by human scholars suggest that the druids would have been thriving and 
expanding. As the circles expanded, it’s only natural that some druids would leave the circle to 
find another forest with another great oak. In these cases, the wandering druids might have been 
explorers, eager to know what was over the next hill. They may have been very opinionated and 
wished to start a circle following new beliefs. Some may simply have been dreamers, preferring 
the wilderness over the circle. These wandering druids likely wouldn't have respected any political 
boundaries and may have been an important source of news and spiritual solace as they traveled 
between the small villages in the forests and fields. Once again, we must remember that druids 
accumulated a lot of information; about the wild, about trees and animals, but also about the sea- 
sons and the stars. Their knowledge would have aided the first farmers and fisherman of humans 
as they began to build settlements up and down the great rivers. However, because the druids do 
not write down any of their laws, formulae, or oral histories we don’t have too much information 
about those days. Once populations of elves and humans multiplied, the areas they controlled 
began to outnumber the deep and mysterious forests that the druids represented. By this time, the 
druids were primarily known for the celebrations they conducted at the solstices and equinoxes 
before more formal religions started to take hold. At these events, the druids blessed mistletoe 
collected from the oaks and it was used for fertility and as an antidote to poison. 


Today there are refugee druids. Some join other circles but many refuse to abandon the lands 
they know so well even if their central oak has been cut down. They have found that trying to 
influence the dukes, aldermen, or bandits that rule the land doesn’t get much done, except per- 
haps killing the druid. Compassion causes them to lend their knowledge and skills to aid the few 
people left in places like Velen to help them restart farms to feed the starving. Some bring a seed- 
ling oak from the forests and around it build circles marked by stones or carved posts. They help 
the pioneers who are trying to re-establish villages, and the villagers help the druids to replant the 
trees. The druids capture and heal wild animals that have been burned, stabbed, or trapped, to 
re-establish the circle that will maintain life going forward. These druids will use their magic to 
aid villages in danger of being utterly destroyed by monsters but only enough to re-establish the 
balance of nature. Once balance has been restored, they continue on their path. 


These druids are perpetual wanderers. They do what they can for the wild lands they pass 
through, and they heal the sick or injured that they come across. While traveling, these druids 
may sometimes “liberate” animals kept under abusive conditions but always keep the balance in 
mind. Their relationship to the wild is very personal and very individual. Some wanderers see 
their trail as a series of pilgrimages to visit the existing druid circles where they may stay long 
enough to learn a new song or poem of lore. Most current religions do not consider druids a 
threat, so they are safe enough, but they are almost never seen in urban settings and they still 
tend to keep to themselves. 


The Druid Profession 


Social Standing 


Druids are considered Equal in Skellige 


and in rural communities but are Tolerated 
by all other groups and Hated and Feared 
by those who hate magic. 


| Rite of Oak and Mistletoe (INT) | 


A Druid learns very quickly how to 
harvest magically potent plants and turn 
them into a powerful focus for their magic 
which connects them to the land around 
them. A Druid can take a day and make 
a Rite of Oak and Mistletoe check against 
a DC specific to the area in which they 
find themselves to harvest the necessary 
ingredients. If successful, the Druid creates 
a Staff which works only for the Druid. 
This staff functions exactly as a Staff 
(Witcher Core Rule Book, pg. 74) but 
its Focus value rises as they improve 
their Rite of Oak & Mistletoe value. 
Additionally, while the druid is carrying 
their staff, they gain benefits based on 
their Rite of Oak & Mistletoe value. 


“Life and Death, entwined as a braid?’ 
-Axel Three-Eyes 


If ya talk to a druid they'll tell ya they're the 
guardians of nature and the ones who keep 
balance in all livin’ things. They're empow- 
ered by their connection to the natural world 
to make sure nothin’ gets outta sorts. Stoppin’ 
poachers, protectin’ endangered animals from 
monsters, helpin’ rebuild after forest fires and 
whatnot. But that ain't all. Heh, I've had my 
fair share of interactions with druids and they 
ain't all the same. Most of the druids yer gonna 
see are initiates of nature whore settin’ out to 
do all the stuff I mention before. They're real 
attuned with the world around em, can call on 
the forest to do all sorts of magical stuff, read 
the smallest signs in broken branches and bent 
grass to learn about intruders, and even make 
pacts with animals to help em guide the wil- 
derness. Then ya got yer sages. These are the 
druids who study the mystical arts and secrets 
of their circles. Also turns out they tend to be 
the ones who interact with other folk the most, 
heh. You'll find em actin’ as spiritual guides 
and counselors for backwoods communities. 
Tellin’ fortunes with rituals of blood and bones, 
and settlin’ disputes between all manner of 
folk. I hear the most powerful ones can even 
change their bodies to be more beast than man 
but I ain't seen it. I suppose if ya live in the 
wild long enough and ya go seekin out all sorts 
of ancient knowledge it’s bound to have some 
effect on ya. Heh, the last ones are the ones city 
folk are most concerned about, the militant 
ones. Ya see, some druids get fed up with being 
peaceful all the time. Most folks couldn't care 
less about nature long as they get theirs. Plus, 
ya gotta deal with all the damn monsters with- 
out a place in nature! These militant druids 
tend to designate an area as their sacred grove, 
usin the nature around ‘em to fend off loggers, 
poachers, and monsters; and if that fails, they'll 
use their magic to grow a beast into a behe- 
moth to run the invaders off. 


-Rodolf Kazmer 


Defining Skill 
Rite of Oak and 
Mistletoe 


Vigor Threshold 


Magical Perks 
2 Novice 
Invocations 
2 Novice Rituals 


2 Low Danger 
Hexes 


Wilderness Survival 


Gear (Pick 5) 
100 crowns of 
components 


Belt Pouch 
Candles (x5) 


Clothing 


The Druid Skill Tree 


Defining Skill: Rite of Oak and Mistletoe (INT) 


A Druid learns very quickly how to harvest magically potent 
plants and turn them into a powerful focus for their magic 
which connects them to the land around them. A Druid can 
take a day and make a Rite of Oak and Mistletoe roll against a 
DC specific to the area in which they find themselves to harvest 
the necessary ingredients. If successful, the Druid creates a Staff 
which works only for the Druid. This staff functions exactly as 
a Staff (Witcher Core Rule Book, pg. 74) but its Focus value 
rises as they improve their Rite of Oak & Mistletoe value. The 
Focus value begins at 1 at level 1 and raises by 1 every 2 lev- 
els to a maximum of 4 at level 7. At level 9, the Staff gains the 


Greater Focus Effect. Additionally, while the Druid is carrying 
their staff, they gain the following benefits based on their Rite 
of Oak & Mistletoe value. At level 2, the Druid ignores all envi- 
ronmental penalties in overgrown or swampy terrain. At level 
4, the Druid ignores the penalties for snow and ice conditions. 
At level 6, the Druid ignores the penalties for extreme heat con- 
ditions. At Level 8, the Druid ignores all penalties from being 
underwater. At Level 10, the Druid can roll to create a new staff 
by taking a full round action rather than 1 day. The DCs to cre- 
ate a staff are 14 when in a forest, 16 when in swampy areas, 18 
when in mountainous regions, and 20 when at sea. 


eee 


Nature Attunement 


A Druid can become more in tune with 
nature, gaining 1 point of Vigor threshold 
per level in Nature Attunement up to level 
9. At the 10th level in Nature Attunement, 

the Druid’s Vigor Threshold rises by 
5 to a total of 16. Nature Attunement 
can be trained like any other skill. 


Lore | ss LoreKeeper 


Part of the initiation into a Circle is to 
memorize a plethora of topics that can 
come in handy to the Druid. They can 


roll their Lore Keeper Ability in place of 


any Wilderness Survival, Monster Lore, 


Human Perception, or Education checks. 


Beast Healer (CRA) 


Working often with animals in defense of 
nature, a Druid can tend to grievous wounds 
in their beastly companions. A Druid can 
roll Beast Healer to treat Critical Wounds 
inflicted on Beasts. This roll works exactly 
like the Doctor’s Healing Hands ability. 


Read Nature (INT) Blood and Bones (WILL) Sacred Grove (WILL) 


When in a purely natural environment, 

a Druid can roll Read Nature at a DC 
set by the GM. Ona success, the Druid 
reads the signs around them to learn 
everything that passed through that 
area within the last week and what each 
creature did in the area. Read Nature 
renders a very localized picture and cannot 
track things but gives a very detailed 
description of what happened in the area.. 


By casting bones in a bowl filled with blood 


drawn from a person, the Druid can alter 


the fate of that person. The Druid rolls Blood 


and Bones against a DC:10 + the target's 


WILL. On a success, the target can add half 


the Druid’s Blood and Bones value to one 
check made before the next sunrise. On a 
failure, the target cannot benefit from this 
ability for 1 week. A single target can only 
benefit from this ability once per session. 


A Druid can turn an area of nature into a 
sacred grove. This takes 1 hour, and covers 
an area with a 20m radius. The Druid 
takes the value of their Sacred Grove check 
and uses those points to add protections 
to their sacred grove. The Druid and 
anyone they specify are immune to these 
protections. This grove lasts for 3 months 
and the Druid can maintain a number of 
groves equal to their Sacred Grove value. 


Animal Compact (WILL) Grove Guardian (WILL) 


A Druid adds their Animal Compact 
value to any Wilderness Survival rolls 
they make to handle animals. The 
Druid can also make a compact with 
an animal. By taking a full round and 
rolling an Animal Compact check at a 
DC set by the GM, they can make one 
Beast or animal their ally for a number 
of hours equal to their Animal Compact 
value. Monsters are unaffected. 


Unlocking ancient rituals allows the Druid 


to incorporate animal aspects into their 
body, transforming into a hybrid form 


without taking an action. For each 2 levels 
the Druid has in Bestial Form, they can add 


a new animalistic aspect to their hybrid 
form. Additionally, while in their hybrid 
form, the Druid can speak with animals 
of a type they have incorporated, and 
become Feared & Hated by non-druids. 


By using an ancient ritual, the Druid can 
empower an animal or beast. By taking one 
full round and rolling Grove Guardian against 
a DC:10 + the creature's BODY, the creature 
grows to twice its size, its BODY increases 
by 5, and gains a +5 bonus to damage. This 
bonus affects the creatures Derived Statistics 
as well. The creature also becomes highly 
aggressive to enemies of the Druid. This 
lasts for 24 hours and during that time the 
druid’s Vigor threshold is reduced by 5. 


Sacred Grove 


Overgrown Environment 
The plants of the area grow wildly out 
of control, imposing a -2 to Dodge/ 
Escape and Athletics checks. 


Lost 
A magical fog settle around the grove 
which forces anyone entering it to make 
a Resist Magic DC:16 to enter the area. 
Targets who fail are turned around 
and immediately exit the grove. 


Poisoned Harvest 
Deadly magic suffuses the plants of the 
grove causing crops grown in the area 
inflict the poison effect when eaten. 


Miracle Harvest 
The plants of the grove grow a bountiful 


Shapeshift 


The Druid’s skin thickens and 
grows bristles. The Druid gains 
+3 SP on all body locations. 


The Druid’s hands grow claws. The 
claws deal 4d6 slashing damage and 
have 10 REL. If damaged, these claws 
regrow at a rate of 1 REL per day. 


The Druid’s ears grow to a point and their 


mouth and nose change into a snout. 


They gain the benefits of enhanced senses, 
granting a +1 to Awareness and allowing 


them to rack things by scent alone. 


The Druid’s legs become digitigrade 
and furry allowing them to leap twice 
their Leap distance by using your move 
action from a standing start. This leap 
can be made horizontally or vertically. 


The Druid grows poisonous fangs. 


to inflict the Poison Effect. 


Thorns The Druid’s eyes grow large and 
A wall of thorny vines sprouts at the edge Owl feathers sprout around their face. 


BEI est Croc binge atts Ot They gain a bite attack that deals 
plant-based ingredients gathered Serpent dee ilk of cle 
from each gathering check. kia Apso pe cas 


of the grove and anything that passes They gain Superior Night Vision. 
through it must make a DC:16 Athletics 


check or suffer the Bleeding condition. DE Dati s Poa proces Diack 


feathers and their mind sharpens 
granting a +1 to INT which can raise 
their INT above 10. Additionally, 
whenever they Reposition they can 
move their full SPD rather than half. 


Druid’s Sickle 


arene Grappling 
praavsite Je [so] > | sae] as | s [wa] stefan | t [| is | 


Druid’s Sickle Diagram (Journeyman) 


Hardened Timber (x2), Resin (x1), Beast 
Druid’s Sickle 17 5 Hours Bones (x2), Hardened Leather (x2), 390 780 
Sharpening Grit (x4), Steel (x2), Feathers (x3) 


y 


Forces of Nature 


1270, Nazair « Personal Journal of Glynnis var Treharne 


= 
Se 


T have arrived at the estate of Baron Amaury de Melin to investigate a 
gathering of druids from the surrounding area. There are... concerns 
as to their activities; so officially I am here to watch, assess, and take 
steps if need be. This journal will serve as the core of my report when I 
return to the Capital. Honestly, I feel the only reason a cadre of Mage 
Hunters isn’t already en route is that there might be a legitimate cause 
for their rumored actions. Still, it’s an exciting opportunity to see dru- 
idic workings in the wild, so to speak. 

Therefore, I am sitting in an estate worker's tavern glorying in the 
name “The Pulpy Pith’, sipping a glass of the local interpretation of 
Nilfgaardian Lemon. It’s not bad, as these things go, de Melin at least 
has an eye for distillation. Most of the drinkers are clearly estate labor- 
ers, paying in wooden chits, and there are a few armed and uniformed 
guards at the best table. 

Ah! The druids are arriving! And being met by the armed men... if 
there’s a conflict, I had better stay out of it and introduce myself after- 
ward to avoid complicating matters. 

Later... 

De Melin is not receptive to the druids’ proposal to (and I quote) 
“restore the land you have violated”. It was quite the sight, seeing how 
they resisted the blandishments of the guards and notably their cap- 
tain, who is a nasty piece of work and clearly spends far too much time 
polishing his armor. 

The druids leader got the brunt of the brutal language meted out by 
the guards; the issue of them trespassing on the de Melin estate was raised, 
and he declaimed in a voice designed to carry that “the land cried out to 
me and I shall not be swayed”. The captain postured but understandably 
refrained from overt conflict with eight druids on a mission. 

Ive introduced myself to the Circles Hierophant, a brusque gen- 
tleman by the name of Johann Hollyrood. I indicated that I was here 
for purely academic reasons but he was having none of it. Rural this 
man may be, but he’s no bumpkin. My admission to being an agent 
of Gweison Haul satisfied him, and he’s allowed that I may join their 
pilgrimage, so I may better learn of their bond with the natural world. I 
would have hoped my heritage would have given me some credit there, 
but he pegged me as a woman of the city at first glance. His sole condi- 
tion was that I should neither interfere nor use any Power of my own, 
lest it cause unfavorable resonances. 

I must ask Johann if he really did hear the land crying out to him 
and if so, how? Dreams? Visions? A particularly talkative fox? 

The source of the grievance is a dam erected by de Melin as an 
irrigation project. Lemons, it seems, require a constant source of water, 
and rather than tailor his crops to the land, he has dammed and redi- 
rected a tributary of the Sylte. Said tributary supplies swathes of wil- 
derness now in a drought, so the druids are taking steps. A local solu- 
tion will save the Empire the trouble of dealing with the problem should 
it start affecting citizens. 

Thope the druids’ plan is peaceful; it would be a shame to lose such 
a wealth of knowledge in the ways of Chaos. 

The walk from The Pulpy Pith was not overlong but dry. In the 
interests of practicality, Id opted for leggings under a traveling dress 
but regretted my choice after mere minutes of steady striding along the 
valley in which the estate sits. 

It's worth recording the appearance of these druids as they do not 
dress in traditional Imperial or Mettinese garb. These nature-priests, 
men and women alike, wear pale tunics falling to mid-knee, of sturdy 


fiber. These are closed at the neck and bicep with wide toggles carved of 
smooth, yellow bone. They clothe their feet in open boots with strapping 
reaching up the leg. At their shoulders, they wear mantles of fur, each 
of a unique color and texture. Many of the mantles show silver tips, 
indicating the animals died in advanced years. 

Mounting a rise, we came upon the offending architecture. The 
dam was an ugly thing of wood, nails, and banked mud, and its reser- 
voir had formed in a natural bowl, with a sluice directing the flow into 
trenches dug between the rows of a flourishing lemon grove beyond. It 
was only then I realized the dusty road we had trod to get here must be 
the correct course of the river. 

Here, Johann directed me to this coppiced tree and told me to sit 
still and watch. Then, he deployed his people on either side of the dam 
in readiness for their ritual. 

Each opened the sling bag they carried and pulled out first a large 
yellow lump the size of my two fists and then bundles of pungent herbs 
I could smell from my vantage point. They kneaded the lumps until 
they softened and gave off a potent scent of honey, then divided the 
beeswax into three, flattening them in their hands, and wrapped a por- 
tion of herbs within a cylinder. These crude candles were set around 
the dam, some molded onto the wood, some sitting on stones to either 
side. With a whisper of Power, each candle sprung to smoldering life, 
sending scented smoke billowing into the sky. 

As an attentive student, here is where I sit, watch, and write. 

Johann stands in the riverbed, before the dam. He raises his hands 
and begins a chant I regret I cannot hear in sufficient detail to record 
accurately. There’s a note of command but also respect, and it’s cer- 
tainly answered. I can feel the power building as the smoke swirls into 
a spiraling column between the practitioners. 

Later.... 

I was so engrossed in the working that I nearly missed the tread 
behind me: a guard from the inn. Conscious of both his drawn blade 
and of my need to not disturb the ritual I grabbed my staff, dropping 
this journal in the dirt. 

An advantage of the staff is the striking distance compared to that of 
a sword. As the guard drove his blade towards my face I stepped to my 
right, bringing the crystal in its heavy mount down on his left wrist with 
a satisfying crack. While he was occupied, I reversed my staff, tapping his 
temple with the iron-shod butt, felling him like a tree. 

Glancing around, I saw more men stealthily approaching the druids, 
swords drawn. I was ready to shout a warning—that might have distracted 
them but less than an attack, when the smoke spun out to a wider circle, 
whipping tunics and driving back the armed men, leaving them coughing. 

At the dam, the planks were distorting, knotting around each other, 
carrying the candles upwards as they formed a column taller than a 
man. The water gushed free, almost taking Johann’s feet from beneath 
him as the column sprouted branches, leaves, and a coating of bark that 
ran along its surface like melted wax. Within moments a healthy, mature 
tree stood on stilt-roots in the center of the reinstated river. 

As the smoke cleared, the druids turned their attention to their 
ambushers, laying about with walking staves as they fought to clear their 
eyes. The fight did not last long, and they were gracious enough to allow 
them to drag away their wounded, including my contribution. 

As they staggered away, Johann called after them: 

“The land will restore itself. Do not rebuild this foul tool, lest we 
return with Nature’ fire and storms, instead of her gentle growth.” 


The Magical Mundane 


“To be born with enough control over magic to become a sorcerer or sorceress is extremely rare. 
The vast majority of magically talented children are born with just enough grasp of chaos to 
create a single, simple magical effect. Despite being well in the majority, these gifted individuals 
are often ignored by the greater magical society.” 


When I was growing up in Oxenfurt there was a woman 
who could influence the weather of about 2 square blocks. 
I remember when there was a blizzard on the university 
campus the day that mathematics finals were to be held. 
Other than that, she was not well-liked. The inhabitants 
of Oxenfurt are very attached to their city and don’t want 
people messing with it, even if it is to give them a warm 
spring day in January. Eventually she moved to a small 
village on the Temerian side of the river that specialized 
in growing squash. She was beloved and I hear the squash 
were better than they had ever been. 


There are many people, perhaps 1 in 500, that are born 
with a magical talent. They can do one thing. They can repair 
pot-ware. They can find lost geese. They might even be able 
to make wooden things unbreakable. They are usually not 
born into families with manifest magic. How these people 
live is just as varied as their talents. In the South, as we've 
mentioned before, these people often attend Gweison Haul 
long enough to be evaluated, trained, and often cataloged. If 
they are finders of lost waterfowl they will likely be forced to 
pursue a mundane career unless one province of Nilfgaard is 
suddenly plagued by missing geese. In the outer provinces of 
Nilfgaard, these people are sometimes hidden away by parti- 
sans in case one day their abilities might help in an uprising. 
These limited magic users have an advantage over mages. 
They do not need to be trained by a mentor. If left to their 
own devices they will not go mad. Even provincials who are 
not overly fond of Nilfgaard understand that people born 
with the potential to be mages must be trained the easiest 
place to find that training is Gweison Haul. 


In the North, these limited magic-users can be seen in 
various ways. If they can increase the crop, or find water 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


by dousing, they will usually be seen favorably. If they can 
control one person for a few minutes or set things on fire 
from a distance, they are frequently called witches and 
become scapegoats in their communities. Many of these 
people leave their village or neighborhood and wander 
until they find a place where news of their ability has not 
reached and there they settle, probably hiding their abil- 
ity. They are generally seen as pathetic by more powerful 
mages and they cannot learn to draw and use magic. Since 
Thanedd, rulers, like King Radovid, distrust all magic. 
Their belief flows out to the common people who are then 
more suspicious of magic in all its forms. Radovid’s witch 
hunters do arrest people with limited magic. Some even 
specialize in it as it is an easy way to get bounties. In areas 
like southern Temeria and Aedirn, where authority is thin 
on the ground, the people are more open to anything that 
might help them. 


One village might be able to make unbreakable boar 
spears. Another may build up a pottery trade that can replace 
their scorched fields. In these cases, the magic user can use 
their skill to create a good life for themselves. But sometimes 
notoriety is a curse. If word gets out that a child can charm 
fish to a boat, they may find themselves stolen in the night 
and chained to the mast of a fishing boat. 


No one has developed a good explanation for why limited 
magic occurs and why one particular person receives it. One 
mage has suggested that perhaps these people were exposed 
to a large charge of magic as children or perhaps even in the 
womb. Some interpret it as a religious gift. Some that it is the 
result of extreme trauma. They suggest that limited magic 
is more common since the wars started. Certainly a lot of 
people are experiencing trauma in these times. 


Sold To 
The South 


“Grim business but I 
once had the honor of 
helping one of these little 
sprouts durin the second 
war. Heh, little Cidar- 
ian boy, no taller than 
me. Parents found out 
he could sharpen blades 
with his mind and tried 
to barter him off to the 
Black Ones for money or 
safety or such. Found the 
kid on the run after some 
Verdenian rebels had hit 
the Black Ones on their 
way past Orth. Nice lad, 
well-behaved _consid- 
erin. Dropped him off in 
Kerack with a friend of 
mine whod look out for 
him.” 

—Rodolf Kazmer 


Magical Gifts 


To most people on the Continent, having magic is synonymous with being a priest, druid, or 
mage. But that isn’t exactly true. Any mage will tell you that sorcerers and sorceresses are the most 
powerful of the magically gifted. The majority of people who are gifted with the powers of Chaos 
are really only capable of doing one small task. Their gift is usually self-taught and their attune- 
ment is such that they are incapable of channeling enough magic to learn spells, invocations, 
or other forms of magic. In some cases, gifted individual are students of magic academies who 
proved incapable of higher learning and were expelled or dropped out. 


In character creation, if a player gets permission from their Game Master, they can choose to 
give their character one of the 14 Magical Gifts at the cost of taking the matching Side Effect. The 
character gains access to this Magical Gift and a Vigor Threshold of 2. Mages, Druids, Priests, and 
Witchers cannot take a Magical Gift and neither can any character of a race that is incapable of 
being a Mage. Furthermore, unlike a Mage, Witcher, Druid, or Priest, a Magically Gifted character 


is not attuned enough to Chaos to learn any new magic or properly utilize a Focus. 


Magical Gifts comes at two different levels denoted by their Stamina Cost and Difficulty. Lesser 
Magical Gifts have a Stamina Cost of 1, can be cast as an action, and do not have a DC. These gifts 
draw on so little Chaos that the user doesn't even have to roll a Spell Casting check to cast them. 
Major Magical Gifts on the other hand, have a Stamina cost of 2, require a full round to cast, and 
the caster must beat a DC:9 Spell Casting check to perform the effects of that gift. 


Being Magically Gifted does not initially change your character’s Social Standing but if you 
are caught using magic you will be assumed to be a Mage by the majority of people, meaning that 
your Social Standing changes to that of a Mage with anyone who saw you or believes the word of 


someone who saw you. 


Minor Gifts 


Calm Animals 
Spell Casting DC: N/A 
STA Cost: 1 


Effect: As an action, you 
can calm a Beast that does 
not have a Medium or Hard 
Threat Rating. After this 
effect, the Beast considers 
you and your allies friendly 
and will not attack unless 
provoked. 


Side-Effect: Beasts of Threat 
Rating Medium or Hard are 
enraged by your presence 
and if possible, will priori- 
tize attacking you over other 
targets. 


Fear Aura 
Spell Casting DC: N/A 
STA Cost: 1 


Effect: As an action, you are 
able to emit an aura of palpa- 
ble fear. Everyone within 4m 
of you must make a DC:12 
Resist Magic check or be 
frightened and take a -2 to 
any action made against you 
for 24 hours. 


Side-Effect: You count as 
one level lower on the Social 
Standing Chart (Minimum 
Hated) and members of your 
own race now treat you as 
Tolerated instead of Equal. 


Fleet of Foot 

Spell Casting DC: N/A 

STA Cost: 1 

Effect: As an action, you 
can double the range of your 
LEAP for 1 Round. 
Side-Effect: When you are 
knocked back, you travel an 
additional 4m, raising the 
possible damage taken from 
hitting an object. 


Green Thumb 


Spell Casting DC: N/A 
STA Cost: 1 


Effect: As an action, you can grow a 
small plant from seed to maturity. This 
allows you to grow herbs and alchemical 
plants but not larger plants such as trees. 


Side-Effect: Any alchemical concoc- 
tion you create with a plant-derived 
substance as one of its ingredients 
gives you the poisoned condition as 
well as the intended effect when you 
use it. 


Minuscule Illusion 
Spell Casting DC: N/A 
STA Cost: 1 


Effect: As an action, you are able to 
create an illusion within 4m that fills a 
1m cubed space. This illusion must be 
simple and is only visual. 


Side-Effect: You take a -3 penalty to 
determining whether an illusion is 
real or not. 


Pigment 
Spell Casting DC: N/A 
STA Cost: 1 


Effect: As an action, you can make a 
mark with your hand on a surface that 
has a color you desire that can option- 
ally glow, should you desire. The glow- 
ing mark raises the light level by 1 for 
4m all around it (Maximum Daylight). 
Once you have made a mark you can 
take an another action as long as you 
are within 4m to make the mark emit 
a flash of Glaring Light for one round 
after which it disappears. 


Side-Effect: When someone within 
10m of you suffers a magic fumble 
effect, you suffer the effect as well. If 
you suffer a magical fumble you do 
not suffer a second effect. 


Major Gifts 


Aerokinesis 
Spell Casting DC: 9 
STA Cost: 2 


Effect: As a full round action, you can 
manipulate up to 5 ENC of material at 
a range of 8m as if you were holding it. 
Side-Effect: Whenever you are knocked 
prone or knocked back you are also 
reduced to 10 STA unless you were cur- 
rently at or below 10 STA. 


Cryokinesis 
Spell Casting DC: 9 
STA Cost: 2 


Effect: As a full round action, you can 
freeze up to 2 square meters of liquid 
or a single target within 8m. 


Side-Effect: Whenever you have a 
chance of being frozen, you are no 
matter what. Additionally, instead of 
the standard Frozen condition you 
reduce your SPD by 6 and REF by 4. 


Detect Poison 
Spell Casting DC: 9 
STA Cost: 2 


Effect: As a full round action, you can 
smell a substance to detect whether it 
has been poisoned. 


Side-Effect: Whenever you would gain 
the Intoxicated or Poisoned conditions, 
you are additionally Nauseated for the 
duration of those conditions. 


Fortify 
Spell Casting DC: 9 
STA Cost: 2 


Effect: As a full round action, you can 
increase the Reliability or SP of an 
item you can touch by 1. An item can 
only benefit from Fortify once. 


Side-Effect: If you come within 4m 
of any amount of dimeritium you lose 
all Vigor Threshold and must make 
an Endurance roll at a -3 against the 
Dimeritium Effect Table. 


Geokinesis 
Spell Casting DC: 9 
STA Cost: 2 


Effect: As a full round action, you 
can create a tremor with a 8m radius 
centered on yourself. Anyone within 
this area must make a DC:14 Athletics 
check or fall prone and be staggered. 


Side-Effect: If you would suffer the 
Staggered condition you are instead 
Stunned for 1 round. 


Pyrokinesis 
Spell Casting DC: 9 
STA Cost: 2 


Effect: As a full round action, you can 
light a fire or put out a fire. You can 
light one object or target within 8m on 
fire. You cannot target yourself with 
this ability. 

Side-Effect: Whenever you have a 
chance of being caught on fire you are 
caught on fire no matter what. 


See Aura 
Spell Casting DC: 9 


STA Cost: 2 

Effect: As a full round action, you can 
see the aura of all targets within 8m 
of you. This aura tells you what the 
Vigor Threshold of each target is. 
Side-Effect: You give off a tangible 
tingle that alerts anyone who touches 
you to your magical capability. This 
will make many people assume you 
are a mage. Because of this your 
Social Standing is considered to be 
that of a mage. 


Weapon Honing 

Spell Casting DC: 9 

STA Cost: 2 

Effect: As a full round action, you can 
add a 25% Bleed chance to a weapon 
that deals Piercing or Slashing 
damage. 

Side-Effect: Whenever you have a 
chance of bleeding, you bleed no 
matter what. 


e@pepees @ +s tes. Re Yee oo em, «|. ® 4? Pee oh ERE er erereeeeees eee esr aso 


' 


2) 
= 
a 
2) 
iam 
= 
ah. 
= 
ar 
‘S) 
o =m 


t=) 
DN 
ey 
es} 
SA 
S 
> 
S) 
a 
= 
~ 
a) 
S 
o 
2 
> 
3) 
D 
= 
g 
al 
@ 
~ 
bas 
= 
fon} 
es} 
fatal 
at 
K 
N 
= 


Tact 


Winter in Ban Ard is crisp, clear, and crunchy. On the outskirts, the sea- 
son's snowfalls layer upon each other, undisturbed save by hunting ani- 
mals and enthusiastic youngsters. 

Which was why, Eachan thought, it was unfair that today’s plans for 
building and shaping last night’s snowfall were going to be ruined by the 
forces of Evil. 

He always thought of Tomos and Dylan like that; Evil, big “E”. Three 
years his senior, the older boys were wealthy, convinced they were destined 
to be officers when they went to war. Many of the city’s fathers had left 
already, and it seemed to Eachan that the army had enough people already. 

As if they read his thoughts, the two young men grabbed a handful 
of stones from the inn yard where Eachan had assembled his friends. 
‘The little ones liked him, looked up to him, and were good at following 
orders in his games. 

Now they sheltered behind him as Tomos tossed a stone. It flew wide 
of the mark, but Dylan was ready to follow-up. Dylan’ father was a 
merchant and teaching his son the family business involved having him 
lugging bales around from deliveries. There was a lot of Dylan. 

‘This time the throw was on target. Eachan saw it heading straight for 
his face and flinched away. In his head, he felt a sharp *snick* and the 
stone missed him, clattering off the kitchen window shutter. 

“Stand still, you little bastard!” Dylan's face twisted in anger. 

Stung, Eachans retaliation was out before his sense could stop his mouth. 

‘Tve got a dad and a mum, and I know who they are!” 

It was stupid; worse, it was rude, and the bullies made him feel it, send- 
ing a pair of stones straight and true. Behind him, the youngsters squealed 
and Eachan felt pure anger as that internal *snick* came again and the 
missiles zipped aside. One bounced harmlessly off the wall, the other... 

“Ah!” 

Eachan turned in horror to see his mother next to the kitchen 
door, rubbing a cut above her eye. Seeing his distraction, Tomos 
drew back his arm. The next moment could have gone badly, but for; 
“ENOUGH.” The word was not shouted, it was stated, carrying the 
weight of practice and with no time for nonsense. 

‘The speaker was the only guest the inn had, an elf-woman with long 
blonde hair braided tight to her head. She strode out of the door andgazed at 
the assembled children with a frown. After along moment, she spoke again, 
in that weird maybe-Nazairi accent hed noted whenshearriveda week ago. 
“You two are too old for such mischief. Go.” Tomos and Dylan rocked 
back, but turned and stalked away. Dylan tossed a sneering farewell over 
his shoulder, “Just as well your father left for the war! When he’s killed, 
he won't be able to ditch you for a real son!” 

Eachan’s vision blurred with angry tears and he started forward 
with no thought but to force those words back down Dylan's throat. His 
mother was faster, spinning him to face her. 

“Boy, you are a fool! We'll be lucky if their families don't take the 
inn!” She pulled him towards the door, but the odd guest stepped into 
their path and spoke gently. 

“Madam Gilreath, please, permit me to speak with your son. I'm cer- 
tain the child meant no harm. 

‘I don't need an elf’s help to raise my son! Do you even have chil- 
dren?” His mother all but spat. 

Eachan watched in pure shock as the guest locked eyes with his 
mother and grip on his arm slackened. 

“No, I do not have that honor. But I am a teacher. Please. Allow me 
to help.” 

“Teach this little idiot not to get himself killed by his betters!” And his 
mother stomped inside, slamming the door. 


‘The guest cast her gaze over the yard as Eachan and the gaggle of 
small ones huddled together trying to go unnoticed. To these last, she 
smiled and said, “We will have a game when I have talked with your 
friend. Can you make snowballs?” Enthusiastic nods. “Then make as 
many as you can, and a wall to hide behind. Over there, next to the 
trees.’ The children scampered off to their task. 

“Miss, who are you?” 

In reply, the elf led Eachan to the far side of the yard. 

“My name is Glynnis. And I think you need my help. I watched what 
you did to the stones. Was that the first time?” 

Stunned by her bluntness, Eachans instinct was to deny everything, 
but her direct gaze left him sure shed know. He looked away. 

“N-no. Sometimes... things move when I want them? Since I was a 
baby. Dad wanted me tested, but the magicians at the school, they said I 
was worthless.” The memory stung, though he wasn't certain why. 

“Child, you defended your friends.” Glynnis sighed. “You are no sor- 
cerer in waiting, but this power is far from worthless.” She raised her 
voice. “Come, children, time for a battle! All of you against Eachan! Boy, 
you will stop the snowballs, understand? Don't think, do.” 

Baffled, Eachan nodded and grabbed a handful of snow and had 
barely formed it when the first wave struck with a series of wet slaps and 
laughter. He grinned at the next attack, dodging most and waving one 
aside. The children gasped, giggled, and rearmed; this time he deflected 
two balls and held another for a moment before sending it back. As a 
large, wet example lofted towards him, Glynnis’ voice suddenly whis- 
pered in his head though she stood clear of the exchange; 

“Your father left you.” The ball stopped as Eachan froze. “You're a 
useless freak, he hates you.” 

His breath came fast, words trying to spill out. The snowball hung 
in the air, shaking—and then exploded in his face. Rage vanished as he 
spluttered, wiping his eyes and mouth. Glynnis helped clear his vision. 
Her hands gentle on his face. 

“Child, when angry, you lose control. Power does not vanish, but 
without control...” 

Emotions churning, Eachan stared at her. 

‘A face-full of snow?” 

‘At best. One day you may face other things.” Glynnis brushed her 
hands dry on her skirt and called out, “Come here, children! And that 
includes you two, I see you skulking. Come and listen.” 

Tomos and Dylan slouched out of their hiding place at the side of the 
inn. The small ones pounded over, red-faced and smiling. 

“One day, all of you will fight. When that happens, you may not have 
your friend at your side. You could have a stranger or one you hate. It 
matters not. That's why this time, these two will throw for you, Eachan, 
and you will defend them. No, do not protest. You are to be men soon 
and this lesson is for you also. Now, let battle commence!” 

Reluctantly at first, but with increasing enthusiasm, Tomos and 
Dylan scooped snow and hurled it at the children behind their defensive 
wall. Soon the air was full of snowballs arcing across the yard and the 
laughter of children. Eachan stood tall, deflecting and bursting snow- 
balls that threatened his team with more confidence each moment and a 
growing smile on his lips. 

Glynnis retreated to the sidelines, watching the game. Her fond smile 
faded as she looked South to where the army she had but recently left 
was lying, a spare few months from raining death and horror on these 
innocents. Could she warn them? 

“Let them be children,’ Glynnis whispered, “if only today.” 


A Compilation 
of Chaos 


“Researching and refining a new spell can take months or years and the 
cost in resources, head-pain, and sleepless nights can be high. It’s a matter 
of minor wonder to me that so many spells make their way around the 
world intact and almost entirely predictable in their effects.” 


@@O@G 


This chapter is a compilation from many 
sources. Glynnis has contributed spells 
and rituals not seen in the North. Rodolf 
has collected stories of hexes and rituals. 
My library has been ransacked for spells 
and invocations. We have spent hours por- 
ing over the library at Ban Ard as the snow 
fell. We searched the Oxenfurt library, and 
the private libraries of my contacts built up 
over the years. I must acknowledge the help 
of the librarian of the Church of the Eter- 
nal Flame in Novigrad. Eventually we made 
contact with the fabled library at Lan Exeter 
by megascope. Between all these places we 
found a treasure trove of spells, invocations, 
rituals, and hexes. Some Northern sorcer- 
ers and sorceresses helped us but ask to 
remain nameless. Oddly we found that when 
we truly convinced people, often complete 
strangers, that we were studying magic and 
collecting great knowledge so that nothing 
would be lost, many of them opened up and 
could hardly stop talking. Of course, we usu- 
ally sent Glynnis in first. 


In the end we gathered all our informa- 
tion together in the library of Ban Ard where 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


YO 


we pored over our notes, eliminating things 
that seemed of dubious authenticity. Glynnis 
tried many of the spells we have included. 
She decided that spells have “dialects” of 
how magic is used between the South, the 
North, and the islands. We declined to try 
the invocations as none of us felt sufficiently 
religious to contact any gods or forces. We 
experimented with some rituals and Rodolf 
and I attempted to venture into the hexes but 
surprisingly we lacked the focused malice. 


At first I thought that curses would make 
an interesting chapter but Glynnis was 
against it. She said that curses were very 
personal things, entirely irreproducible; I 
argued that they certainly made for good sto- 
ries. But Rodolf’s outlook was that the hexes 
were bad enough and did we really want to 
doom a great number of mothers-in-law and 
inconvenient business partners. From there 
I’m afraid the conversation degenerated into 
silliness and in the end we bowed to Glynnis’ 
good sense. 


One thing I regret is that we did not get 
much access to elven magics. If there is a 


The Importance 
of Learning 


“The greatest enemy of 
magic is and has always 
been ignorance. All my 
life I have striven to 
illuminate the minds of 
magicians and laypeople, 
young and old, in hopes 
of stamping out this igno- 
rance wherever possible. 
Please, as you read this 
chapter, do your best to 
keep an open mind and 
an open heart. Magic is 
capable of so many won- 
derful things if it is con- 
trolled.” 

—Glynnis var Treharne 


library of elven magic we were not able to get even a whis- 
per about it. The elves declined to let us see their libraries 
or to be interviewed on the subject of magic. Some inferred 
that if humans had not destroyed the great elven libraries, 
there would be much more information for us to find. I 
suggested that if they had not destroyed their cities as they 
retreated that they might have access to their centuries of 
information. Rodolf broke in and closed that conversation. 


In the name of getting the most information possible, 
I sent word to a correspondent in Nazair. I didn't men- 
tioned Glynnis or suggest that I had any other Nilfgaardian 
sources. My correspondent’s library offered a fair amount 
of knowledge about Nazairi magic during its Golden Age, 
around 1000 of our calendar. It appeared to be elegant and 


centered on aesthetics. I was delighted to bring Glynnis 
something she had never seen. 


—Brandon of Oxenfurt 


“<T must admit that in my time working with him, 


Lhave become quite fond of Brandon of Oxenfurt. 
Though I am quite sure he is my junior by many 


decades he has become somewhat of a a 
geonly uncle to me. The vim and vigor with wile 
he approaches learning in all its facets is inspiring 


even if his propensity for quarreling is unmatched = 


and he has a breadth of knowledge that Iam often 


jealous of, though I imagine a great deal of that 
knowledge is gleaned from impromptu journeys to 


dangerous places with master Kazmer. In alll, bs is 
a refreshing change from the academia of the % 
pire where knowledge is sought for the sake of e 
nation and composure is paramount. You woul 
be hard pressed to find an imperial scholar as an- 
imated in his discussion of ancient gnomish-hu- 
man relations as Brandon of Oxenfurt. Were he 
to practice in the City of Golden Oa I have no 
doubt he would have either been imprisoned or as- 
sassinated by the end of the first month. 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


Mixed Earth Air Fire Water 
Novice Spells 

Alchemical Recovery | Cryfhau Bronwyn'’s Bow Breath of Fire Aurora’ Breath 
[ Blemish Earthen Pillar T Dust Coating ; Coating of Fire Slip Stream 
L Detect Ley Lines | Sharpen Senses . Light Feet i Harmless Fire | Water Jet 
| Fergus’ Demise | Soften Earth [__ MagnifyOdor | _Vahila’s Smoke |___Web of Ice 
Hold Tongue | | | 
| a Magic Screen | 
| __ Reopen Portal 
|_serealats saiined 

= = Journeyman Spells : i 
| Cloak Bekker’s Rockslide | Ball Lightning | Cinder Door | Essence of Potion 
| Disrupt Focus j | Elgan’s Bastion | Invisible Ribbon i Mage’s Forge fl -— Invaerne 
[ Dormyn’s Chamber il - Javed’s Swarm | Touch of Lightning | - ‘Smith's Touch ; al . Rusting S 
[ | Empower | ee | . 
| Spectral Tether 

“Trap Portal 
I a ____ Master Spells =. 
| Bekker’s Dark Mirror | Crystal Stasis | Gwyntog | Blaze of the Korath | Ainfra’s Extraction 
! Steal Spell Shape Earth il Hand of the Tempest | Living Fire | Deluge of Ys =i 


Reverse 
Engineering 


Creating a portal is a lot 
like crafting a wooden 
door. Building the frame, 
shaping the wood, and 
attaching all the fittings 
is a complicated process 
that requires a great deal 
of skill. But once that 
door has been created, 
opening it doesn’t come 
with any complicated 
requirements. In the 
same way, any Standing 
Portal created leaves a 
small trace which can 
be opened like a conven- 
tional door. 


Novice Spells 


Mixed 


Alchemical Recovery 
STA Cost: 3 


Effect: Alchemical Recovery 
allows you to revitalize the 
potency of a spent substance. 
Upon casting this spell, you 
can choose an alchemical 
crafting project that has failed 
and recover one of its Alchem- 
ical Substances. This spell 
cannot be cast on the same 
failed project more than once 
but can be used alongside the 
standard Recovery step. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: None 


Blemish 
STA Cost: 5 


Effect: Blemish allows you to 
create a small but noticeable 
illusion on a target that they 
are unaware of which makes 
them off-putting or unat- 
tractive. Upon casting this 
spell, the target suffers a -3 
to Seduction, Charisma, and 
Leadership checks. If the tar- 
get is alerted to the illusory 
blemish, they become aware 
of it. A target that looks in a 
mirror or reflective surface, 
can make a DC:16 Awareness 
check to notice it as well. 


Range: 4m 
Duration: 1d6 Hours 
Defenses: Resist Magic 


Detect Ley Line 
STA Cost: 2 


Effect: Detect Ley Line allows 
you to locate the closest Ley 
Line by sending out a mag- 
ical pulse. Upon casting this 
spell, your hand points in the 
direction of the closest Ley 
Line and you can feel which 
element it is connected to. 


Range: 1 Mile 
Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: None 


Fergus’ Demise 
STA Cost: 4 


Effect: No one knows who 
created this spell but it was 
made infamous by its use on 
Emperor Fergus var Emreis 
after he was dethroned. Fergus’ 
Demise allows you to summon 
a cluster of magical needles 
that act on your command, to 
torture a target within range. 
For the duration of this spell, 
you are able to make a Spell 
Casting check instead of an 
Intimidation check to interro- 
gate your target. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: 1 Hour 
Defenses: None 


Hold Tongue 
STA Cost: 5 


Effect: Hold Tongue allows 
you to magically glue a tar- 
get’s lips and paralyze their 
tongue, rendering the them 
unable to speak. While 
affected by this spell, the tar- 
get cannot open their mouth 
and can only emit muffled 
sounds. If a Mage, Priest, or 
Druid with a Spell Casting 
skill value below 7 is affected 
by this spell, they cannot cast 
magic. At the end of every 
round, the target can attempt 
another Resist Magic check 
against a new Spell Casting 
check to end the effect. 


Range: 10m 
Duration: 10 Minute 
Defenses: Resist Magic 


Magic Screen 
STA Cost: 3 


Effect: Magic Screen allows 
you to create a very specific 
illusion over a 2m cubed area 
to hide or alter items. Upon 
casting this spell, you can 
hide or change the appear- 
ance of items within the 
area. This change can only be 
visual and remains until dis- 
pelled or until any items are 
removed from that 2m cubed 
area. When a target comes 
within 4m of the Magic 
Screen they can make a Resist 
Magic check to see through 
the Illusion. 


Range: 4m 
Duration: Immediate 
Defenses: Resist Magic 


Reopen Portal 
STA Cost: 6 


Effect: Reopen Portal allows you to 
find the trace of an existing portal 
and reopen that connection tempo- 
rarily. Upon casting this spell, you 
can choose either a Permanent Portal 
which is currently closed or the trace 
of a Standing Portal which was cast 
within the last 30 seconds and roll 
a Spell Casting check. If the chosen 
portal is a Permanent Portal, the DC 
to reopen it is 16. If the chosen portal 
is a Standing Portal, the DC is 20. 
Range: 2m 

Duration: 1 Round 

Defenses: None 


Savolla’s Method 
STA Cost: 5 


Effect: An evolution of ancient tech- 
niques, Savollas Method breaks down 
the tissue and mucous membranes of a 
corpse and makes it easier to find and 
extract mutagenic compounds. Upon 
casting this spell, the Mutagen within 
a corpse separates itself and emits a 
slight glow allowing it to be extracted 
with a DC:14 Alchemy or Witcher 
Training Check. 

Range: 2m 

Duration: Immediate 

Defenses: None 


Earth 


Cryfhau 
STA Cost: 4 


Effect: Cryfhau allows you to perma- 
nently increase the density of a single 
2m cubed area of cover. Upon casting 
this spell, you immediately raise the 
covers SP by 5. This can raise the SP 
higher than its original total. Cryfhau 
cannot be cast multiple times on the 
same area. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: None 


Earthen Pillar 
STA Cost: 4 


Effect: Earthen Pillar allows you raise a 
2m cubed pillar from earthen ground. 
This pillar counts as cover with 10 SP 
and remains until destroyed. 

Range: 10m 

Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: None 


Sharpen Senses 
STA Cost: 2 


Effect: Sharpen Senses allows you to 
heighten the sensitivity of your sight, 
smell, and hearing. Upon casting this 
spell, you immediately gain the bene- 
fits of Night Vision and Scent Tracking 
and have a +2 to Awareness checks. 
However, if you are subjected to a 
bright light or a very loud noise, you 
suffer Staggered condition. 


Range: Self 
Duration: 30 Minutes 
Defenses: None 


Soften Earth 

STA Cost: 2 

Effect: Soften Earth allows you to soften 
a 6m cubed area of earth into a muddy 
morass or change sand into quicksand. 
The area of the spell becomes difficult 
to maneuver within and imposes a -2 
to Dodge/Escape and Athletics checks. 
Range: 10m 

Duration: 2d10 Rounds 

Defenses: None 


Air 


Bronwyn’s Bow 
STA Cost: 5 


Effect: Developed by Bronwyn Dead- 
eye to bombard the Nilfgaardian Navy, 
this spell allows you to summon a pow- 
erful current of air to propel a thrown 
weapon great distances. Upon cast- 
ing this spell, you can make an attack 
with any Thrown Weapon, hand- 
held Ranged Weapon Ammunition 
(Arrows or Bolts), or Bomb against a 
target using your Spell Casting base. 
If throwing an arrow or bolt, you deal 
4d6 damage. 


Range: 50m 
Duration: Immediate 
Defenses: Dodge & Block 


Dust Coating 

STA Cost: 3 

Effect: Dust Coating allows you to 
whip up dust from the local area into 
a 10m cubed cloud which reveals 
any invisible creatures for one round. 
Choose one target within this area to 
adhere the dust to. If the target fails to 
defend, you cover them in a coating 
of dust which negates the benefits of 
invisibility. 

Range: 20m 

Duration: Active (2) 

Defenses: Dodge 


Light Feet 

STA Cost: 2 

Effect: Light Feet allows you to accel- 
erate your movement by carrying 
yourself along on a gust of wind. Upon 
casting this spell, you raise your Speed 
Statistic by 5, your Run Derived Statis- 
tic by 15, and your Leap Derived Sta- 
tistic by 3. 

Range: Self 

Duration: Active (2) 


Defenses: None 


Magnify Odor 
STA Cost: 5 


Effect: Magnify Odor allows you to 
intensify an existing scent until it 
encompasses a 6m cubed area. A crea- 
ture who starts their turn in this area 
or enters it must make an Endurance 
check against your Spell Casting check 
or be overwhelmed by the odor and 
Nauseated for 1 Minute. Additionally, 
anyone who enters the area is perme- 
ated by the scent for 1 week along with 
their possessions granting anyone with 
Scent Tracking a +2 to track them. Any 
creature with Scent Tracking loses that 
ability while affected by this spell. This 
scent lasts for the duration of the spell 
or until entirely submerged in water. 
Range: 10m 

Duration: 1 Week 

Defenses: None 


Fire 


Breath of Fire 
STA Cost: 4 


Effect: An imperfect attempt by the 
sorcerer Afan of Gulet to re-create the 
breath of a true dragon, Breath of Fire 
allows you to exhale a stream of magical 
fire onto a target. If the target fails their 
defense, they take 3d6 damage and have 
a 100% chance of being lit on fire. 


Range: 4m 
Duration: Immediate 
Defenses: Dodge or Block 


Coating of Fire 
STA Cost: 3 


Effect: Coating of Fire allows you to 
subtly permeate a single object with 
fire magic to make it highly flammable. 
For the duration of the spell, the object 
will burst into flame immediately if 
exposed to any open flame. If cast on 
a creature any effect that would have a 
chance to light them on fire automati- 
cally does. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: 1 Hour 
Defenses: Dodge 


Harmless Fire 
STA Cost: 3 


Effect: Harmless Fire allows you to 
manipulate the heat and power of a 
fire to make it temporarily safe. Upon 
casting this spell, choose an area of fire 
no larger than 2m cubed and that fire 
becomes harmless to anyone touching 
it. The fire will not spread or otherwise 
damage anything it is touching. If you 
are on fire and under the effect of this 
spell you can still take damage from 
fire-based attacks. 


Range: 8m 
Duration: 10 Minutes 
Defenses: None 


Vahila’s Smoke 
STA Cost: 3 


Effect: Created by the feared Etolian 
assassin Vahila, this spell transforms 
a wisp of smoke into a choking veil. 
Upon casting this spell, you can engulf 
a single target’s head in thick smoke. 
If this target fails to defend they are 
immersed in smoke and considered 
Blinded and Suffocating. Each turn, 
the target can spend their action to 
attempt another defense check against 
a new Spell Casting check to end the 
effect. 


Range: 10m 
Duration: Active (2) 


Defenses: Dodge 


Water 


Aurora’s Breath 
STA Cost: 5 


Effect: Developed by the famed Water- 
Mage, Aurora Henson, to explore 
submerged ruins off the coast of the 
Continent, Aurora’s Breath allows you 
to breath water as well as air through 
skillful manipulation of water magic. 
Range: Self 

Duration: 30 Minute 


Defenses: None 


Slip Stream 
STA Cost: 5 


Effect: Slip Stream allows you to propel 
yourself through the water in a current 
of your own creation. While swim- 
ming, your Speed Statistic is changed 
to 12 and you do not suffer the normal 
penalties for attacking and defending 
underwater. 

Range: Self 

Duration: 10 Minutes 


Defenses: None 


Water Jet 
STA Cost: 5 


Effect: Water Jet creates a controlled 
geyser from a source of water to strike 
a target with your choice of slashing, 
piercing, or bludgeoning damage. If 
the target fails to defend, they take 4d6 
damage and are knocked Prone. 


Range: 8m 
Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: Dodge & Block 


Web of Ice 
STA Cost: 2 


Effect: Web of Ice allows you to create 
a delicate structure of ice on a surface 
which is linked to a duplicate that you 
possess. The moment a creature inter- 
acts with the surface it is placed on, 
the structure and its duplicate break. 
Alternatively, breaking the duplicate 
melts the original structure. The ice 
can be spotted with a DC:18 Aware- 
ness check. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: 1 Day 
Defenses: None 


Journeyman Spells 


Mixed 


Cloak 
STA Cost: 16 


Effect: Cloak allow you to render yourself 
and anything you are carrying invisible. This 
grants you a +10 to Stealth and a +5 to Attack 
and Defense. Even if a creature makes their 
Awareness check to spot you, you still gain a 
+3 to Attack and Defense. Yrden or a Moon- 
dust Bomb can render you partially visible, 
reducing your Stealth bonus to +5 and your 
Attack and Defense bonus to +3. If you are 
hit by an attack while invisible, this spell ends 
immediately. 


Range: Self 
Duration: Active (2) 


Defenses: None 


Disrupt Focus 

STA Cost: 15 

Effect: Disrupt Focus allows you to tempo- 
rarily disturb the magical pathways in an item 
with the Focus effect. Upon casting this spell, 
a single item with the Focus effect ceases to act 
as a focus for the duration of the spell. 

Range: 10m 

Duration: 10 Minutes 

Defenses: None 


Dormyn’s Chamber 

STA Cost: 18 

Effect: Dormyn’s Chamber allows you to 
imprison a single target within a translucent 
magical bubble. The chamber has 40 Hit Points 
and remains stationary where it was cast. The 
creature within the chamber cannot target or 
be targeted by anything outside. Additionally, 
sound does not pass through the chamber’s 
walls. 

Range: 10m 

Duration: Active (8) 


Defenses: Dodge 


Empower 
STA Cost: 12 


Effect: Empower allows you to weave addi- 
tional magic into your spell casting to create 
a dangerous convergence of chaos. The next 
spell you cast gains one of the following ben- 
efits of your choice: the percentage chance of 
any effects caused by the spell raise to 100%, 
the roll to cast the spell is made at a +2 bonus, 
or an already damaging spell deals an addi- 
tional 2d6 damage. However, if you roll a 1 
when making the Spell Casting check you 
automatically suffer from a Magical Fumble as 
though you had rolled a 10. 


Range: Self 
Duration: 1 Minute 


Defenses: None 


Spectral Tether 
STA Cost: 8 


Effect: Spectral Tether allows you to weave a 
tether of magic around a target which binds 
it to it's physical form. While affected by this 
spell, a target cannot become incorporeal or 
invisible and cannot teleport by any means. 
Additionally, as long as the spell is in effect, 
the target cannot move more than 10m away 
from you. Each turn, the target can spend their 
action to attempt another Resist Magic check 
against a new Spell Casting check to end the 
effect. 


Range: 10m 
Duration: Active (4) 


Defenses: Resist Magic 


Vahila’s Pipe 


“Heard a little bit about 
this lass from one of my 
contacts in the Blue Rose. 
Said she used to take 
contracts on rebels and 
traitors to the Empire. 
Heh, they said she liked 
to find her targets in their 
homes and disorient ‘em 
by chokin ‘em with the 
smoke from her pipe. 
While they're clawing at 
the smoke and thrashir’ 
around shed put a stiletto 
in their gut and split em 
open groin to throat.” 
—Rodolf Kazmer 


Trap Portal 

STA Cost: 12 

Effect: Trap Portal allows you to place 
a magical trap inside a portal which 
redirects the portal’s end point. Upon 
casting the spell, you learn the por- 
tal’s end point and can choose a loca- 
tion within 1 mile of that point to be 
the new end point. This trap makes a 
notable change to the portal which 
requires a DC:16 Magic Training check 
or a DC:20 Education check to spot. 
Anyone with at least 1 point in Magic 
Training automatically gets to roll a 
Magic Training check upon seeing the 
portal to try and spot the trap. Imme- 
diately after a creature passes through 
the portal, the trap is dispelled but 
evidence that the portal was trapped 
remains for 1 month. 


Range: 4m 
Duration: 1 Month 
Defenses: None 


Earth 


Bekker’s Rockslide 
STA Cost: 13 


Effect: Bekker’s Rockslide allows you 
to rip a large stone from beneath the 
ground and drop it on a target. Upon 
casting this spell, the target must roll 
a Reposition roll against your Spell 
Casting check. If they fail, the target 
takes 6d6 damage to the torso with a 
100% chance of Knock-Down. As the 
rock makes impact, it explosively shat- 
ters covering a 6m radius. Anyone in 
that area must make a DC:16 Athletics 
check or be Knocked-Down and take 
4d6 damage to the torso.. 


Range: 10m 
Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: Dodge (Reposition) 


Elgan’s Bastion 
STA Cost: 14 


Effect: Created by the famed magi- 
cian Elgan of Verden, Elgan’s Bastion 
uses trace amounts of metal in stone 
to magnetically lift a shield of rocks 
around you to defend yourself from 
physical attacks and damage. ‘This 
shield of rocks counts as a Cover with 
30 SP and entirely surrounds you. 
While surrounded, your SPEED Sta- 
tistic cannot be higher than 2 and you 
cannot do anything on your turn but 
take a single Movement Action. 


Range: Self 
Duration: Active (4) 


Defenses: None 


Javed’s Swarm 
STA Cost: 10 


Effect: Javed’s Swarm allows you to 
control a great number of insects from 
the environment. Upon casting this 
spell, a swarm of controlled insects 
crawls out from nearby crevices and 
forms a horde with a SPD Statistic of 
7 which can engulf a single target by 
making an attack at a Base 14. This 
attack deals 1d6 damage to the tar- 
get's torso, ignores all worn armor, and 
has a 100% chance of poisoning. The 
Horde has 15 Hit Points and a Dodge 
base of 14. 


Range: 6m 
Duration: 10 Minutes 
Defenses: None 


Air 


Ball Lightning 

STA Cost: 14 

Effect: Favored by mages who 
commonly fight agile tar- 
gets, Ball Lightning summons 
an orb of magical lightning 
which flies through the air at 
your command. Upon casting 
this spell, you can direct the 
ball lightning at a single tar- 
get who must make a defense 
check against your Spell Cast- 
ing check. If they fail, the target 
takes 3d6 damage to the torso 
and suffers the Concussion 
Critical Injury Effect for 10 
Minutes. If the target success- 
fully defends, the Ball Light- 
ning remains in the area. On 
subsequent turns you can use 
your action to make a new 
attack against a target with a 
new Spell Casting check. Once 
the ball lightning hits a target it 
dissipates. 

Range: 20m 

Duration: 5 Rounds 
Defenses: Dodge 


Invisible Ribbon 

STA Cost: 15 

Effect: With a whisper, Invisi- 
ble Ribbon allows you to focus 
a gust of wind into a sharp, 
invisible blade that whistles 
through the air. Upon casting 
this spell, a single target must 
make a Defense check against 
your Spell Casting check. If 
they fail, the target takes 3d6 
damage. The ribbon is invisi- 
ble and thus even after attack- 
ing, anyone in the area must 
make a DC:20 Perception 
check to determine where the 
attack came from. 

Range: 10m 

Duration: Immediate 
Defenses: Dodge or Block 


Touch of Lightning 


STA Cost: 8 

Effect: Touch of Lightning 
allows you to imbue a sta- 
tionary metal object with a 
powerful charge of electricity. 
Upon casting this spell, the 
object becomes an electrical 
trap which will deal 1d6 dam- 
age to the first body location 
that touches it. This spell can 
be charged by spending extra 
rounds focusing on it during 
the casting. For each round 
that you continue to hold the 
object and pay its active cost 
the trap deals an extra 1D6 
of damage (maximum 8D6 
total). If the object is moved 
before it is touched by a body 
location it loses all charges. 
Additionally, 24 hours after 
the spell is cast the object 
loses all charges. It requires 
a DC:20 Perception check to 
determine an object has been 
affected by this spell. 

Range: 2m 

Duration: Active (5) 
Defenses: None 


Fire 


Cinder Door 
STA Cost: 12 


Effect: Cinder Door allows 
you to funnel fire magic 
into a flammable structure 
to safely and silently con- 
sume it from within. Upon 
casting this spell, up to a 2m 
cubed section of the cover 
you touch takes 4d6 abla- 
tion damage. This spell can 
be maintained by spending 
extra rounds focusing on it 
during the casting. For each 
round that you continue to 
maintain the spell and pay 
its active cost the cover takes 
4d6 ablation damage. When 


this area of cover no longer 
has any SP, it crumbles away. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: Active (3) 


Defenses: None 


Mage’s Forge 
STA Cost: 12 


Effect: Mage’s Forge allows 
you to create a magical fire 
that can be used to purify 
metal. When ingots of metal 
are placed within this fire 
their impurities are burned 
away making them easier to 
recover after a failed craft- 
ing attempt. During the 
Recovery Step any purified 
ingots used are automatically 
recovered. Additionally, the 
fire created acts as a Tinker’s 
Forge for the purposes of 
crafting, but cannot be used 
on Dimeritium. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: 1 Day 
Defenses: None 


Smith’s Touch 
STA Cost: 10 


Effect: Smith's Touch focuses 
fire magic into metal allowing 
you to manipulate it with your 
bare hands. While this spell is 
active, you are able to bend, 
shape, and manipulate metal 
as if it were clay. Additionally, 
by taking an action to make 
a Brawling attack, you can 
deal 3d6 ablation damage to 
armor or reliability damage to 
a weapon. This spell cannot be 
used on Dimeritium. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: Active (10) 
Defenses: Dodge 


Mage’s Ingots 


The ingots created by 
Mage’s Forge dont look 
any different and are not 
magical which means that 
it is difficult to convince a 
merchant or craftsman 
to pay a higher price for 
them without demon- 
strating their purity. 


It ) 

STA Cost: 14 

Effect: Invaerne allows you to create 
a howling snowy gale in an area with 
a 30m radius. This area has Snow 

& Ice conditions. If cast in a cold 
environment, the duration of this spell 
is increased to one week. 

Range: 50m 

Duration: 1 Hour 

Defenses: None 


Rusting 
STA Cost: 14 

Effect: Rusting allows you to emit 

a spray of chemically reactive water 
which rapidly oxidizes metal objects. 
If using this spell on a target’s armor, 
all their worn armor takes 2d6 
ablation damage and wearing any of it 
imposes a -2 to their Reflex, Dexterity, 
& Speed Statistics. If using this spell 
on a target’s weapon, the weapon takes 
2d6 reliability damage and imposes 

a -2 to attacks made with it. If this 
spell is blocked by a shield, the shield 
takes 2d6 Reliability damage. The rust 
created by this spell can be removed 
from 10 items by taking an hour to 
make a DC:14 Crafting check. 

Range: 4m 

Duration: Permanent 

Defenses: Dodge or Block 


Essence of t 
STA Cost: 12 
Effect: Essence of Potion allows you 
to take a single dose of any Decoction, 
Potion, or Elixir that has not yet been 
affected by this spell and magically 
transfer some of its properties into a 
unit of Essence of Water, transforming 
it into a copy of that item. 

Range: 2m 

Duration: Permanent 

Defenses: None 


Master Spells 


Mixed 


Bekker’s Dark Mirror 
STA Cost: 25 


Effect: Bekker’s Dark Mirror allows 
you to trap a creature’ reflection in a 
reflective surface near them, drain- 
ing their strength. Upon casting this 
spell, you can choose two of the tar- 
get’s Statistics and reduce them each 
by 1d6. This reduction affects Derived 
Statistics. Once drained, this Statistic 
remains lowered for the duration of 
the spell or until the mirrored surface 
containing the reflection is completely 
destroyed. The affected target casts no 
reflection until the spell ends. A crea- 
ture without a reflection cannot be 
affected by Bekker’s Dark Mirror. 


Range: 10m 
Duration: 1 Month 
Defenses: Resist Magic 


Steal Spell 
STA Cost: 20 


Effect: Steal Spell allows you to take 
control of another mage’s spell and 
re-designate its target. When another 
mage casts a Non-Master level spell 
you can immediately force the mage 
to make a contested Spell Casting 
check against you. If you succeed at 
this check, you change the target of 
the spell to anyone within range of the 
original caster or yourself if the spell 
had a range of self. If the spell requires 
an attack check, use your Spell Casting 
check from the contested check. If the 
spell you steal is active, you remain in 
control of the spell but must pay its 
active cost. 


Range: 10m 
Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: None 


Earth 


Crystal Stasis 


STA Cost: 25 

Effect: Crystal Stasis allows you to 
cause crystals to grow up around a tar- 
get and encase them entirely, placing 
them into an unaging, coma-like state. 
These crystals grow rapidly but not 
instantaneous and the spell must be 
maintained as per an Active Spell over 
three rounds. On the target’s next turn, 
their body becomes sluggish and stiff, 
imposing a -3 to attack and defense 
and a -3 to their SPD. On their second 
turn, their body begins to be consumed 
by crystal and they additionally can- 
not move from where they stand. On 
their third turn, the target is entirely 
entombed in a pillar of crystal render- 
ing them unconscious. If the mage is 
forced to stop maintaining this spell 
before the third round, the spell ends 
and the effects are reversed. Otherwise, 
the only way to reverse the effects are 
the use of the Dispel spell. 

Range: 6m 

Duration: Active (6) 

Defenses: Resist Magic or Dodge 


Shape Earth 


STA Cost: 25 

Effect: Shape Earth allows you to create 
a single structure composed of mate- 
rials present at the site such as wood, 
stone, or earth that fills a 20m cubed 
cube. This structure can be whatever 
you wish, provided that it is simple 
in nature for example, a tremendous 
wall, a statue, or a fortification with a 
few rooms and simple furnishings. The 
structure will build itself over the next 
10 minutes and will vary in SP from a 
wooden wall with 5 SP to a stone wall 
with 30 SP. This is determined by the 
GM. 

Range: 6m 

Duration: Permanent 

Defenses: None 


Air 
Gwyntog 


STA Cost: 24 


Effect: Gwyntog allows you to create a 
localized windstorm with up to a 40m 
radius. While this spell is in effect, gale 
force winds whip around the area mak- 
ing flight impossible and movement 
extremely difficult. Immediately, any 
flying creature is knocked out of the 
air and suffers damage as per normal. 
Ranged attacks made will fail to hit 
their intended target and land wherever 
the GM decides. Finally, any creature in 
the area must make an Athletics check 
DC:20 or be unable to take a Movement 
or Run Action during their turn. 


Range: 100m 
Duration: Active (6) 
Defenses: None 


Hand of the Tempest 
STA Cost: 25 


Effect: Summoning the full force of gales, 
you exert a tremendous force on a target 
which can manifest in one of 3 ways. 
With a powerful updraft you can send 
a target who fails a Reposition check or 
object of 1000kg or lighter flying 14m 
into the air. The target begins to fall at 
the end of their next turn. Upon hitting 
the ground, the target and anything it 
hits takes 7d6 bludgeoning damage to 
the torso and are knocked prone. Alter- 
natively, with a powerful gust you can 
flood a 14m cone with powerful wind. 
Anyone in this area who fails a Reposi- 
tion check or could not escape the area of 
the spell with their reposition is knocked 
back 14m and takes ramming damage if 
they hit anything as they fly. Finally, you 
can manipulate an object up to 1000kg as 
though you were holding it in your hand. 


Range: 20m 
Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: Dodge 


Fire 


Blaze of the Korath 
STA Cost: 24 


Effect: Blaze of the Korath allows you to create a sweltering 
aura with up to a 40m radius which eats away at creatures’ 
STA. Upon casting this spell, each creature in the area low- 
ers their current STA by 2d6. Additionally, while in the area, 
creatures are incapable of taking the Recovery Action. If a 
creature is in the area at the start of its turn or enters the area 
on its turn, they lower their current STA by 2d6. If a target 
is reduced to 0 points of STA by this spell, they fall uncon- 
scious until they recover at least 20 points of STA and make 
a successful Stun save. 


Range: 100m 
Duration: Active (4) 


Defenses: None 


Living Fire 

STA Cost: 25 

Effect: Living Fire allows you to summon a small amount 
of life into a fire. While not as sentient or powerful as a 
Fire Elemental, this living fire is capable of taking a turn, at 
your Initiative. The Living Fire has a Speed Statistic of 5, is 
considered Incorporeal, and can cast Aenye, Wave of Fire, 
and Flaming Vortex, with a Spell Casting Base of 16 and 
infinite STA. The Living Fire cannot take extra actions and is 
destroyed if the fire is put out. 

Range: 10m 

Duration: 10 Minutes 


Defenses: None 


Ba : 
z 


spells and I’ve 
ing. I've encounter a num 
magic to solve all of 
a poor inn keep have 
who thoug 
gwent. 


——— 


Water 


Ainfra’s Extraction 
STA Cost: 22 


Effect: Created by the famed Ainfra of Mag Turga, Ainfra’s 
Extraction allows you to desiccate a target and then utilize 
their water for your own means. Upon casting this spell, a 
target that fails to defend lowers their current STA by 8d6 
and the caster may immediately cast Rhewi, Ice Slick, or 
Water Jet at no STA cost. 

Range: 8m 

Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: Resist Magic 


Deluge of Ys 

STA Cost: 24 

Effect: Deluge of Ys allows you to summon a 20m cubed 
cube of water which floods out in all directions. Anyone 
caught in the area takes 5d6 damage to the torso and must 
make a DC:24 Physique check or be knocked prone as water 
batters them. If cast in an open area, the water will flood out- 
wards within the same turn it was cast. If cast in an enclosed 
space, the water fills the space, breaking any non-reinforced 
barriers and leaves the area entirely submerged. 

Range: 40m 

Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: None 


aE eae Toe 
E Be ee) oe ee SNe 
We 
se 


ere aren't many mages capable of castin master grade 
come to believe that is something of a bless- 

ber of mages who seem to use 
their problems and I would hate to see 

his whole inn flooded by a sorcerer 

ht some ruffian had cheated him at a round of 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


Novice Invocations 


Blessed Weapon 
Divine Inspiration 
Duplicitous Darkness 
Light of Penance 


Presence of the Divine 


Journeyman Invocations 
Blessing of Abundance 
Brand of Withering 
Seek the Seekers 


Master Invocations 


Quill of the Divine 


| 
| 
| Sagitta Aurea 
| 


| Deity 
Epona 
Svalblod 
Veyopatis 
Dana Meadbh 
The Prophet Lebioda 
Nehaleni 


Morrigan 


Lilvani 


Arch Priest Invocations 


Invocations 
Blessed Herd 
Blood of the Berserker 
Champion of the River 
Feast of Plenty 
Miracle of Lebioda 
Omen of Misfortune 
Retribution of the Raven 


Silverlight 


STA Cost: 2 

Effect: Blessed Weapon creates a glow- 
ing rune on a melee weapon you touch 
which magically lightens and balances 
the weapon. For the duration of the 
invocation, the weapon has the Bal- 
anced Effect. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: % Hour 
Defenses: None 


Divine Inspirati 
STA Cost: 2 


Effect: Common among _inquisi- 
tors and artists alike, Divine Inspira- 
tion allows you to bless a target with 
insight. Upon casting this invocation, 
you grant a +2 bonus to a single skill. 
The target of this invocation must have 
at least a Skill value of 1 in the skill 
affected before the invocation is cast. 
A character can only benefit from this 
invocation once per day. 


Range: 8m 
Duration: 10 Minutes 
Defenses: None 


Duplicitous Darkness 

STA Cost: 2 

Effect: Duplicitous Darkness shrouds 
your target's mind in a veil of false 
thoughts. Your target gains a +2 to 
Deceit checks, cannot be forced to 
tell the truth by magic, and cannot 
be mentally spied on with Telepathy. 
Anyone attempting to probe the target 
with magic is unaware that this invo- 
cation has been cast unless they make 
a DC:20 Awareness check. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: 1 Hour 
Defenses: None 


Light of Pet 

STA Cost: 3 

Effect: Developed by the beloved 
Incandescent Anika var Myricks in the 
heart of Nilfgaard, Light of Penance 
summons the power of your deity to 
punish a target, draining them of their 
will to resist. Upon casting this invo- 
cation, the target lowers their current 
STA by 2d6. If the target has a Vigor 
Threshold of 1 or higher, they lower 
their current STA by an additional 2d6 
as well. 


Range: 6m 
Duration: Immediate 
Defenses: Resist Magic 


Presence of the Divit 
STA Cost: 3 


Effect: Presence of the Divine allows 
you to summon the aspect of your deity 
to make your bearing more imposing. 
Upon casting this invocation, you can 
make your voice boom loud enough to 
be heard from far away and you gain 
a +4 to Intimidation checks. Alterna- 
tively, this invocation can be cast on up 
to 6 targets to make them immune to 
fear effects. 


Range: 10m 
Duration: 10 Minutes 
Defenses: None 


Blessing of Abu 

STA Cost: 6 

Effect: Blessing of Abundance imbues 
you with divine providence, making you 
more likely to benefit from found goods. 
The first time you or your GM rolls to 
determine how much loot you gain, the 
roll is made twice and the higher value 
is taken. This applies to an entire loot 
source; meaning that if you loot a dead 
monster, you would roll each loot item 
twice and take the higher value. 


Range: Self 
Duration: 1 Day 
Defenses: None 


Rran at 
Dall yi 


Effect: Favored by death cultists of all 
creeds, Brand of Withering marks a tar- 
get with a symbol of creeping decay that 
arrests their ability to heal. Upon casting 
this invocation, a target who failed to 
defend can no longer benefit from any 


yu f{ the Divin 

STA Cost: Variable 

Effect: Quill of the Divine allows you 
to reach into a target’s mind and alter 
their memories. By spending 14 STA 
you can lock away the memories of 
a target who fails to defend against 
this invocation giving them severe 
retrograde amnesia. By spending 16 
STA you can implant memories of 
your own creation into a target who 
fails to defend. Unless the target has 
had their memories locked away with 
this spell, they gain a +5 to resist the 
implantation of these new memories. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: Permanent 
Defenses: Resist Magic 


effect that would allow them to recover 
Hit Points, including natural healing. 


Range: 8m 
Duration: 1 Week 
Defenses: Resist Magic 


STA Cost: 6 

Effect: Seek the Seekers creates a mag- 
ical ward around you that warns you 
of divination such as Hydromancy, or 
Pyromancy. If you or anyone within 
10m of you is the target of divination 
you are alerted as soon as it is cast 
and are shown the face of the diviner. 
Anyone who tries to spy on you with 
divination must make a DC:20 Educa- 
tion or Magic Training check to real- 
ize they have been caught. However, if 
they succeed this check, you are made 
aware that they know you caught them. 
Range: Self 

Duration: 1 Day 

Defenses: None 


STA Cost: 14 

Effect: Sagitta Aurea summons the 
divine power of your deity to form a 
spear of golden light. Upon casting 
this invocation, a target must make a 
Defense check against your Spell Cast- 
ing check. If they fail, the target takes 
7d6 damage. Sagitta Aurea can travel 
in a straight line through targets with 
each target making a Defense check. If 
a target is possessed by a demon, the 
demon takes the damage as well and is 
forced out of their body. Additionally, 
any demon damaged by this invoca- 
tion cannot use any of its abilities for 
the next round. 


Range: 20m 
Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: Dodge 


blessed Herd (| ona) 
STA Cost: 16 
Effect: With power granted to you by 
Epona, you summon up to 10 wild 
horses and empower them with magic. 
These horses appear within the next 
hour. A horse empowered by this invo- 
cation can either be empowered with 
swiftness or strength. If enchanted 
with swiftness, the horse summoned 
is a Horse with a Speed Statistic of 24 
and an Athletics Skill Base of 20. If 
enchanted with strength, the horse 
summoned is a Warhorse with a Con- 
trol Mod of +2 and a natural armor 
value of 20 which can't be layered with 
barding. While riding these mounts, 
creatures you choose get a +5 to their 
riding checks. You can only have up to 
ten horses summoned with this invo- 
cation at a time. 


Range: N/A 
Duration: 1 Week 
Defenses: None 


svalblod) 

STA Cost: 16 

Effect: Channeling the power of Sval- 
blod, you transform your body into 
a towering great bear. While in this 
form, any items on your person meld 
into your form and you gain access to 
all the abilities of the Great Bear but 
loose access to your Profession abilities 
and magic. Your Statistic and Skill val- 
ues change to those a great bear with 
the exception of any values that would 
be higher than those of a Great Bear. 
When you end the effects of this invo- 
cation, any damage or Critical wound 
you took as a Great Bear are trans- 
ferred to your natural body. However, 
if the damage sustained as a Great Bear 
would be enough to kill you normally 
you are instead reduced to 1 Hit Point. 
Similarly, when you cast this invoca- 


tion, any damage or critical wounds 
you already had are applied to your 
Great Bear form. 


Range: Self 
Duration: 1 Day 
Defenses: None 


STA Cost: 16 

Effect: With the power of Veyopatis 
you anoint with river water a target as 
your champion and suffuse them with 
magical strength. As long as this invo- 
cation is active, your champion has 
Resistance to all damage sources and 
gains a +5 to all rolls. 


Range: 10m 
Duration: Active (5) 
Defenses: None 


Meadbnh) 
TA Cost: 16 

Effect: Calling upon the power of the 
Lady of the Valley, you bless a feast 
gathered entirely from the local area 
and large enough to feed at least 20. 
Upon eating from this feast, a crea- 
ture gains 6d6 Hit Points, immediately 
treats all critical wounds; and removes 
the Poison and Disease conditions. 
This invocation can affect as many 
people as the feast can feed. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: None 


Miracle of Lebioda (Lebioda) 

STA Cost: 16 

Effect: Calling upon the power of the Prophet Lebioda you 
command the body of a target to heal itself. Immediately 
upon casting this invocation, a living target entirely heals one 
critical wound or removes the lingering penalty from a past 
critical wound. The wound is treated as though it had never 
been inflicted even if this means regrowing limbs, eyes, etc. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: None 


Umel f the Future (Nehale 
STA Cost: 16 

Effect: You allow Nehaleni to fill your mind with thousands 
of glimpses of possible futures which you cannot immedi- 
ately decipher. Roll 1d10 until you get 3 outcomes that are 
not 1 or 10 and record these numbers. For the duration of 
this invocation, if a target within 20m of you rolls one of 
these values on 1d10 you are immediately able to recognize 
this outcome, allowing you to, without taking an action, 
intervene in some minor way and force that target to instead 
roll a fumble. 


Range: Self 
Duration: 1 Day 
Defenses: None 


Retributio 
STA Cost: 16 


Effect: With power granted to you by Morrigan, the Lady of 
Ravens, you block the connection to the elemental planes, nul- 
lifying magic. Within the area of this invocation, all magical 
effects, such as runes, glyphs, focuses, curses, trophies, relics, 
magical items, etc. are rendered inert. As long as this invoca- 
tion is active, only those you choose or those who successfully 
defended against this invocation can cast magic of any form. 
This invocation cannot be dispelled. 


Range: 20m 
Duration: Active (5) 


Defenses: Resist Magic 


iverlight (Lilvani) 

STA Cost: 16 

Effect: Summoning the power of the Moon Goddess 
Lilvani you anoint up to 5 people with the a blessing of 
moonlight which shelters them in their darkest hour. For 
the duration of this invocation, affected characters take no 
penalties from being within their Wound Threshold or in 
Death State and the first time they would be reduced to 
below 1 Hit Point they are instead reduced to 1 Hit Point. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: Until the next Sunrise 
Defenses: None 


Novice Invocations 


Master Invocations 


Herbalism 


Druidic Totem 


Touch of Bounty 


Wrath of Nature 


Voice of the Counselor 


Ve lae Roots Hierophant/Flaminika Invocations 
Word of Summoning Circle Invocations 
Bleobheris Shade of Bleobheris 
Journeyman Invocations Gwyn Carn Winds of the Taiga 
Bigelow’s Befoulment Caed Myrkvid Sanctuary of the Black Grove 
Blood of the Mountain Crow Clan Conspiracy of the Mother 
Sigil of the Hunt Gedyneith Well of Knowledge 


Novice Invocations 


Herbalism 
STA Cost: 2 


Effect: Herbalism allows you to create 
an elixir using ancient druidic practices 
instead of traditional alchemy. As long as 
all the ingredients for the elixir are plants, 
you can roll a Spell Casting check instead 
of an Alchemy check when creating the 
Elixir or in the Recovery step. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: None 


Sigil of Bounty 
STA Cost: 1 


Effect: Widely used by druids who 
advise rural communities, Sigil of 
Bounty imbues an aspect of nature with 
vigor to cause one of three effects. If cast 
on spoiled food or drink, this invocation 
causes them to become fresh and deli- 
cious again. If cast on a forageable plant, 
the plant will produce twice the units 
of forageable material. Finally, if cast on 
soil, any plant grown in the soil will grow 
to twice its typical size in half the time. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: 1 Year 
Defenses: None 


Voice of the Counselor 
STA Cost: 3 


Effect: Voice of the Counselor allows 
you to imbue your words with inspira- 
tion. For the duration of this invoca- 
tion, you can either make your voice 
boom loud enough to be heard from 
far away or whisper in the ear of one 
person within range. Additionally, you 
gain a +4 to Leadership checks. 


Range: 10m 
Duration: 10 Minutes 
Defenses: None 


Web of Roots 
STA Cost: 2 


Effect: Web of Roots allows you to take 
control of the roots of a nearby tree 
to grapple a target. Upon casting this 
invocation on a tree, you can use its 
roots to grapple, trip, or disarm a tar- 
get within 10m of the tree who fails a 
Defense check against your Spell Cast- 
ing check. Each round that you main- 
tain this invocation you can either 
maintain your grapple or attempt one 
of the other options on a target within 
10m of the tree. A grappled target can 
escape by succeeding a Dodge/Escape 


check against a new Spell Casting 
check or by dealing 15 points of dam- 
age to the roots. 


Range: 10m 
Duration: Active (1) 
Defenses: None 


Word of Summoning 
STA Cost: Variable 


Effect: Speaking the Word of Sum- 
moning calls out to a nearby wild ani- 
mal which arrives within 1d6 rounds. 
When the animal arrives, it is friendly 
to you and will help you as long as you 
don’ betray or abuse it. If you spend 
2 STA casting Word of Summoning 
you can summon a small animal (Bird, 
Serpent, Cat, etc.). If you spend 5 STA 
you can summon a medium animal 
(Wolves, Panthers, Boars, etc.). If you 
spend 10 STA you can summon a large 
animal (Bear, Ox, Horse, etc.). Word of 
Summoning can only be cast once in 
an area per day. When this invocation 
ends, the animal becomes neutral to 
you. 


Range: N/A 
Duration: 10 Minutes 


Defenses: None 


Journeyman Invocations 


Bigelow’s Befoulment 
STA Cost: Variable 


Effect: Bigelow’ Befoulment taints all food or drink you 
desire within a 2m cubed area with harmful bacteria. If you 
spend 5 STA casting this invocation, anyone who consumes 
the affected food or drink suffers the Disease condition within 
the next hour. While affected by the Disease condition, a tar- 
get takes a -2 to all actions, lowers their maximum STA by 
one quarter, and must make DC:14 Endurance checks at the 


discretion of the Game Master or suffer the Nausea condition. 
The Disease condition can only be removed by having a Doc- 
tor roll a DC:15 Healing Hands check on the affected char- 
acter and then that character getting a full night's rest. If you 
spend 10 STA casting this invocation, the affected targets also 
suffer the Poison condition. 

Range: 4m 

Duration: Permanent 


Defenses: None 


“Black Bile” 
Bigelow 


“Everybody knows, if 
youre on the Yaruga, near 
Scala, and ya see a heron 
ya best leave it alone. Bet- 
ter ya go hungry or try 
your luck with the berries 
than hunt a heron near 
“Black Bile” Bigelow’s hut. 
Met the old bastard once 
and let me tell ya, the man 
could out-glower Brouver 
Hoog himself, heh! Lives 
out in a hut on the Yaruga 
cause none of the other 
druids can stand him. 
Most folks in Lyria know 
him from the stories of 
Baron Ludwik’ disastrous 
feast years back. The Bar- 
ons men had been hunt- 
ing heron in the swamps 
for weeks, gatherin’ up a 
feast for the Baron'’s eldest 
sons birthday. Bigelow 
took notice and decided 
to attend the feast himself! 
Heh? 


—Rodolf Kazmer 


Blood of the Mountain 


STA Cost: 6 


Effect: Calling upon the wellspring of power 
deep within the earth, Blood of the Mountain 
empowers a target with tremendous strength. 
The target’s melee attacks cannot be parried 
and deal double ablation damage to weapons, 
shields, and armor. Additionally, the target is 
immune to any effect that would knock them 
off their feet. 


Range: 6m 
Duration: 10 Minutes 
Defenses: None 


Master Invocations 


Druidic Totem 
STA Cost: 14 


Effect: Druidic Totem allows you to sacrifice 
your staff of oak and mistletoe to create a mag- 
ical totem which connects you to the natural 
world. After casting this Invocation, you must 
sacrifice the focus created by the Rite of Oak 
and Mistletoe by planting it in the ground. The 
staff grows into a 2m tall totem with 20 Hit 
Points, reminiscent of the local flora. While 
within 1-Mile of this totem, you are always 
counted as having a focus with a value of 4, 
all animals are considered friendly to you and 
your allies, and you gain an additional bene- 
fit based on the location where you placed the 
totem. You can only have one totem active at a 
time and creating a new totem transforms the 
old totem into a non-magical plant. 


¢ Fields: You have a Speed Statistic of 12. 


« Mountains: You have Resistance to Blud- 
geoning, Slashing & Piercing damage. 


Sigil of the Hunt 
STA Cost: 5 


Effect: Drawing the Sigil of the Hunt on a 
target allows you to change how animals and 
monsters perceive them. Upon casting this 
Invocation, you can mark up to 6 targets as 
either “safe” or “prey”. A target marked “safe” 
does not disturb animals and any beast they 
encounter is initially friendly; and any mon- 
ster they encounter will initially be neutral. 
A target marked “prey” is perceived as prey 
by all predatory animals or monsters. These 
creatures will attack the target on sight. Both 
“Prey” and “Safe” marks appear almost identi- 
cal but with a DC:16 Education check, you can 
tell the difference. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: 1 Day 
Defenses: Resist Magic 


¢ Underground: You have Superior Night 
Vision and gain a +4 to Stealth checks. 


¢ Forest: If you consume fruit grown within 
the area of your totem, you gain a Regener- 
ation value of 3 for 1 Hour. 


¢ Swamp: You are immune to the Poison and 
Disease conditions. 


¢ Shore: You can breath underwater and have 
no penalties for fighting or maneuvering in 
water. 


¢ Desert: You are immune to the Extreme 
Heat condition and you can always find a 
source of water. Once per day, when you 
consume water collected within the area of 
your totem, you regain all lost STA. 


¢ Tundra: You are immune to the Snow & Ice 
conditions, you cannot be lit on fire or fro- 
zen, and you gain resistance to fire and ice 
damage. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: None 


Wra th of N at ure 


STA Cost: 14 


Effect: Wrath of Nature allows you to summon the tremen- 
dous power of the natural world to wreak havoc on your 
enemies. Depending on the terrain, Wrath of Nature creates 
a different effect centered on you with a 60m radius. 


Sa 


Fields: Every turn you can spend a full round action to 
either touch down a rope tornado within 10m of you or 
direct a single rope tornado within the area of the storm. 
A rope tornado covers a 4m cubed area and when directed 
by you can move 10m per turn. If it runs over or into tar- 
gets those targets must make Athletics checks against 
your Spell Casting check. If they fail, they take 4d6 dam- 
age to the torso and are knocked back 10m in a direction 
decided by the GM. 


Mountains: Every turn you can spend a full round action 
to summon down a bolt of lightning which strikes a tar- 
get. The target must make a Dodge/Escape or Athletics 
check against your Spell Casting check or take 6d6 dam- 
age to the torso and have a 50% chance of being lit on fire. 


Underground: Every turn you can spend a full round 
action to summon a stalagmite or stalactite to violently 
erupt from the stone and stab a single target. The target 
of this attack must make a Dodge/Escape, Athletics, or 
Block check against your Spell Casting check or take 5d6 
damage. Each summoned stalagmite or stalactite remains 
until destroyed and counts as a 2m cubed piece of cover 
with 20 SP. 


Forest: Every turn you can spend a full round action to 
either summon up a tangle of roots from the ground to 
take one of the following actions or give a single command 
to each existing tangle of roots you have summoned. 
These roots are immobile but have the Long Reach Effect 
and can be used to Grapple, Trip, Disarm, Choke, or Pin 
a target. They have a Brawling base of 16 unless your Spell 
Casting base would be higher. 


Swamp: Every turn you can spend a full round action 
to summon a 6m radius area of swamp gas that erupts 
from the ground. Anyone caught in the gas must make 
an Endurance check against your Spell Casting check or 
suffer from the Disease condition. This gas remains until 
the invocation ends. Additionally, if an exposed flame is 
present in the area of this gas, it explodes, causing every 
creature in the gas to take 5d6 damage to the torso and 
have a 75% chance of catching on fire. 


Shore: Every turn you can spend a full round action to 
summon a powerful waterspout out of the nearby body of 
water to knock down targets with pressurized water. Two 
jets of water emit from the spout towards one or two tar- 


gets within 20m. These target’s must make Dodge/Escape 
or Athletics checks against your Spell Casting check or 
take 3d6 damage and be knocked back 6m. 


Desert: Every turn you can spend a full round action to 
kick up a gust of burning sand in a 6m radius area. Any 
creatures within this area must make a Dodge/Escape 
or Athletics check versus your Spell Casting check or be 
blinded for 5 rounds and be lit on fire. 


Tundra: Every turn you can spend a full round action to 
summon up a whirl of snow and water magic around a 
single target to encase them in ice. The target must make 
a Dodge/Escape, Athletics, or Resist Magic check versus 
your Spell Casting check or be encased in solid ice. This 
ice immobilizes the target and keeps them from taking 
actions. To break out of this ice, the target must make a 
DC:16 Physique check. Alternatively, if someone deals 10 
points of damage to the ice or 5 points of fire damage to 
the ice, it allows the person to break free. Any damage 
beyond the 10 points (or 5 points) required to break the 
ice is dealt to the target's torso. 


Range: 60m 
Duration: Active (6) 
Defenses: Variable 


Hierophant/Flaminika Invocations 


Shade of Bleobheris 
(Bleobheris) 


STA Cost: 16 


Effect: Shade of Bleobheris calls upon 
the great oak to calm the hearts of man 
and beast. Upon casting this invoca- 
tion, all animals become docile and 
all affected combatants are removed 
from initiative and cannot take hos- 
tile actions for 1 day. Additionally, the 
essence of Bleobheris temporarily sup- 
presses the prejudices of all affected 
creatures, negating any penalties from 
Social Standing or monstrous heritage. 
On each of its turns, a target affected 
by this invocation can use its action to 
attempt a Resist Magic check against 
a new Spell Casting check to end this 
effect. If the target is attacked this spell 
no longer affects them. 


Range: 50m Radius 
Duration: 1 Day 
Defenses: Resist Magic 


Winds of the Taiga 
(Gwyn Carn) 


STA Cost: 16 


Effect: Winds of the Taiga summons 
the winter winds of the Far North to 
create a blizzard that shelters you and 
your allies. The area of the invocation 
is immersed in a blizzard that blinds 
anyone in it and creates Snow & Ice 
conditions. Any number of people you 
choose are not blinded by the blizzard, 
are immune to the Snow & Ice condi- 
tions, and their attacks have an addi- 
tional 50% chance of freezing. 


Range: 1 Mile Radius 
Duration: | Hour 
Defenses: None 


Sanctuary of 
the Black Grove 
(Caed Myrkvid) 


STA Cost: 16 


Effect: Sanctuary of the Black Grove 
allows you to attune yourself and as 
many allies as you wish to the trees 
within a 1 Mile radius. While this 
invocation is active, you can touch a 
tree and look simultaneously through 
all the trees within 1 mile of you. You 
are able to parse this information and 
focus on specific views if you want. 
Additionally, you and any allies you 
designate can pass through any tree 
within this area and come out of any 
another tree within the area. Your 
allies cannot see through the trees but 
are able to designate where they want 
to go. 

Range: 1 Mile Radius 

Duration: 1 Hour 


Defenses: None 


Conspiracy of the Mother 
(Crow Clan) 


STA Cost: 16 


Effect: Conspiracy of the Mother 
allows you to reach out to up to 10 
crows and summon them to you. Any 
crow affected forms a telepathic link 
with you. This telepathic link allows 
you to communicate with them silently 
within 20m, raises their Intelligence, 
Reflex, & Dexterity Statistic to 7, gives 
them a Sleight of Hand score of 7, and 
makes them sapient creatures who 
follow your orders unless you abuse 
them. This telepathic link also allows 
you to view their memories while you 
are physical touching them and lets 
them know where you are at all times. 
Finally, any crow affected by this spell 


raises their claw damage from 1d6/2 
to 2d6. You can only be bonded to 10 
crows with this invocation at a time but 
the effects on the crow are permanent. 


Range: % Mile 
Duration: Immediate 


Defenses: None 


Well of Knowledge 
(Gedyneith) 


STA Cost: 16 


Effect: Well of Knowledge causes a tree 
you touch to grow an integrated basin 
of fluorescing water blessed by nature. 
The next 20 people to drink from this 
basin are affected immediately. For one 
day after consuming the water of the 
basin, a creature gains a +4 to Initia- 
tive and Awareness, becomes immune 
to the Stagger, Stun, & Hallucination 
conditions, and can see through any 
illusions. If the creature had a Vigor 
Threshold of one or more before con- 
suming the water, they raise their Vigor 
Threshold by 4 but suffer a -4 to Resist 
Magic. After the invocation ends, the 
tree shifts back to normal leaving only 
an etched sigil unique to the druid. A 
creature cannot benefit from this invo- 
cation more than once a week. 


Range: 2m 
Duration: 1 Day 
Defenses: None 


STA Cost: Variable 
Effect: Somne puts a single target to sleep with soothing 
magic. Upon casting this sign, if the target fails to defend, 
they are put to sleep and considered Stunned until they 
wake, 8 hours later. If you spend 2 points of STA casting this 
Sign the target wakes if they take damage, if someone wakes 
them, or if a loud noise occurs. If you spend 4 points of STA 
the target only wakes if they take damage or if someone tries 
to wake them with an action. If you spend 6 points of STA 
the target wakes only if they take damage or if someone tries 
to wake them with a full round action. If you spend 7 points 
of STA the target only wakes if they take damage. If the target 
has no reason to suspect magical interference before being 
put to sleep, they do not know they were affected by magic 
when they wake. 


Range: 8m 
Duration: 8 Hours 
Defenses: Resist Magic 


STA Cost: Variable 


Effect: Drawing the Sign of Supirre on a surface allows you 
to link it to a point within the range of the spell. When 
linked, you can hear anything happening near that point 
as if it were right next to you and can choose to focus on a 
single sound or conversation by tuning out all other noise. 
As long as this sign is active, you do not need to make an 
Awareness check to hear any conversation at the linked 
point. The sign can only be linked to one location and must 
be recast to listen in another. The range of this sign is deter- 
mined by the number of STA Points spent when cast. If cast 
with 1 STA Point, Supirre has a range of 2m. For every STA 
Point spent beyond that, the maximum range of the sign 
increases by 2m. 


Range: Variable 
Duration: 10 Minutes 
Defenses: None 


Rituals 


Novice Rituals 


Create Crystal Skull 

STA Cost: 5 

Effect: By infusing an existing animal skull from a cat, dog, 
bird, or serpent with fifth essence you create a crystal skull 
which can be used to form a single animal of that type as 
per the Crystal Skull on pg.119. If the animal created by a 
Crystal Skull dies, the Crystal Skull can be recharged by per- 
forming this ritual again using only 2 units of Fifth Essence 
and the inactive skull. 

Preparation Time: 10 Rounds 

Difficulty Check: 14 

Duration: Immediate 

Components: Animal Skull, Fifth Essence (x5) 


Create Crystal Skull Create Place of Power 
Imbue Trophy Beacon of the Unnatural 


Fog of the Past 


Wagerer’s Pendant Magical Guestbook 


Enchant Amulet 


Imbue Trophy 
STA Cost: 3 


Effect: By properly preparing and taxidermizing the remains 
of a monster, this ritual allows you to make use of a monster’s 
alien physiology to channel magical effects. Upon perform- 
ing this ritual, a single non-enchanted trophy you possess 
becomes a permanent magical trophy that grants the ben- 
efits listed on pg.124 to anyone who carries the trophy who 
also helped kill the monster. 


Preparation Time: 10 Rounds 
Difficulty: 12 
Duration: Immediate 


Components: Monster Trophy, Fifth Essence (x1), Infused 
Dust (x1), Tanning Herbs (x10), Ogre Wax (x1), Ester 
Grease (x2) 


Tyromancy 
STA Cost: 2 


Effect: By magically aging or melting cheese and watching 
closely its qualities, Tyromancy allows you to divine whether 
a course of action will have a positive or negative outcome. 
When the ritual is performed, the GM privately rolls 1d6 and 
either adds or subtracts it from 13 to determine the DC of 
the ritual. If the cheese used is of standard quality or lower 
(10 Crowns per Unit) the d6 is added to 13. If the cheese used 
is of high quality (30 Crowns per Unit) the d6 is subtracted. 
You then make a Ritual Crafting check against this DC. After 
the check, you may ask the GM whether a course of action 
will have a positive or negative outcome. If your check was 
successful, the GM must answer truthfully. If the outcome of 
the action would be both positive and negative, the answer 
is whichever would be more immediate. If you fail, the GM 
will give you a false answer based on the private roll of their 
d6. If the number was odd the false answer is negative, if the 
number was even, the false answer is positive. 


Preparation Time: 5 Rounds 
Difficulty Check: 13 +/- 1d6 
Duration: Immediate 


Components: Cheese (x2) 


Journeyman Rituals 


Animate Armor 
STA Cost: 14 


Effect: By assembling a full suit of armor with a golem heart 
at its core and infusing the heart with magic you can ani- 
mate the suit of armor as a loyal servant. Upon performing 
this ritual, the suit of armor you used becomes animate and 
uses the living armor stat block (pg. 204) except for its armor 
Stopping Power which is equal to the armor you used. The 
living armor is not a sapient creature and is eternally loyal 
to its creator. It will perform any task given by its creator to 
the letter. 


Preparation Time: 10 Rounds 
Difficulty Check: 18 


Duration: Permanent 


Components: Head Armor (x1), Torso Armor (x1), Leg 
Armor (x1), Fifth Essence (x3), Infused Dust (x3), Golem 
Heart (x1) 


Wagerer’s Pendant 
STA Cost: 6 


Effect: By binding a shard of etched glass in a pendant of 
wolfsbane, beast bones, and leather strips, you can create a 
locus of dark magic. This pendant absorbs the chaos which 
forms hexes and temporarily stores it. While a person wears 
it, they are freed from the effects of all hexes. If the pendant 
is removed at any point, all of the effects return. Addition- 
ally, if the person fails to rid themselves of all of the hexes 
by the end of this ritual’s duration, the pendant breaks and 
releases a torrent of dark magic. Should this occur, the per- 
son wearing the pendant and anyone within 2m of them are 
immediately afflicted by a number of hexes chosen by the 
GM. 


Preparation Time: 10 Rounds 
Difficulty Check: 14 
Duration: 1 Week 


Components: Glass (x2), Beast Bones (x1), Wolfsbane (x2), 
Leather (x2), Chalk (x2), Etching Acid (x5), Ashes (x2) 


Beacon of the Unnatural 
STA Cost: 12 


Effect: By constructing a grim totem containing a fifth 
essence infused mutagen you create a beacon for monsters. 
Upon performing this ritual, the Beacon of the Unnatural 
calls to any monsters within 1 mile to come and build a new 
nest at the location. The scent given off by the Beacon grows 
stronger over time, expanding the range of its draw by a mile 
every year. The Beacon is 2m tall and has 20 Hit Points. 


Preparation Time: 15 Rounds 
Difficulty Check: 18 
Duration: Until Destroyed 


Components: Hardened Timber (x4), A Mutagen, Rope, 
Beast Bones (x5), Fifth Essence (x1) 


Fog of the Past 

STA Cost: 10 

Effect: By arranging a circle of candles, creating a pyramidal 
sculpture of glass with a lunar shard in its center, and filling it 
with essence of wraith you create a magical projector which 
summons up a vision of the past. Upon performing this 
ritual, the projector shows the most emotionally resonant 
moment to have ever occurred in the area. This moment can 
be up to 5 minutes long and plays on repeat until the end of 
the ritual. 

Preparation Time: 10 Rounds 

Difficulty Check: 18 

Duration: 20 Minutes 

Components: Glass (x5), Lunar Shard (x1), Candles (x5), 
Essence of Wraith (x2) 


Master Rituals 


Create Place of Power 

STA Cost: 18 

Effect: By carving complex sigils on a standing stone erected 
at the confluence of two ley lines of the same element you 
create a Place of Power. This Place of Power remains indefi- 
nitely. If you fumble when performing this ritual your fum- 
ble outcome always results in a 10 and all of the stone used 
for the ritual explodes as if it were a bomb (doing 7d6 dam- 
age) with a 6m radius. 

Preparation Time: 20 Rounds 

Difficulty Check: 20 

Duration: Permanent 


Components: Stone (x40), Runewright’s Tools 


Magical Guestbook 
STA Cost: 8 


Effect: By weaving symbols in chalk and coal on an arch- 
way or door frame and placing a small fifth-essence-infused 
clay icon on the top of the entryway you create an invisible 
curtain. This magical curtain records the faces of anyone 
who passes through and alerts you telepathically if anyone 
you designated when you cast the ritual pass through it. 
The curtain keeps the recordings of the faces until the rit- 
ual ends, after which they are stored in the clay icon which 
can be viewed by someone with a Vigor Threshold of 1 or 
higher. These recordings remain as long as the icon remains 
intact. While the ritual is active, you can access the records 
at any time telepathically while within 100m. You must also 
be within 100m for the Magical Guestbook to alert you to a 
designated person entering. 


Preparation Time: 10 Rounds 
Difficulty Check: 16 
Duration: 1 Day 


Components: Chalk (x2), Coal (x2), River Clay (x1), Fifth 
Essence (x1) 


Enchant Amulet 
STA Cost: Variable 


Effect: By inlaying a common amulet with gemstones etched 
with magic glyphs you create an enchanted amulet that 
stores the knowledge of casting certain spells. When cre- 
ating a magic amulet, a character must spend the required 
STA for each spell cast. If a spell has an active duration, the 
caster must also spend enough STA to sustain it for 4 rounds. 
When creating an amulet, the caster may not use a magical 
focus. Every spell to be imbued in the amulet must be cast 
quickly in succession, without taking any other action in-be- 
tween, otherwise the Crafting process fails. 


Preparation Time: 15 Rounds 
Difficulty Check: 18 
Duration: Permanent 


Components: Simple Amulet (x1), Perfect Gemstone (1 Per 
Spell/Invocation), Fifth Essence (x2), Runewright’s Tools 


Low Danger Hexes 


Medium Danger Hexes 


High Danger Hexes 


Curse of Temperance 


The Odious Hex 


The Evil Eye 
Unending Need 


Bones of Glass 


Hex of Forgetfulness 


Low Danger Hexes 


Curse of Temperance 
STA Cost: 4 


Effect: The Curse of Temperance sours the subject’s stom- 
ach to alcohol and exacerbates the effects of drunkenness. 
If the subject consumes anything that would cause them to 
become intoxicated, they immediately suffer the Intoxica- 
tion and Nausea effects as their head spins and their stomach 
churns violently. 


Danger: Low 


Requirement To Lift: The subject must gather 40 Crowns 
worth of alcohol and find a bucket. They must then fill the 
bucket with the alcohol and dunk their head. Their head 
must remain submerged until they suffer the Suffocation 
effect. Upon pulling their head from the bucket the hex will 
be broken. 


The Odious Hex 
STA Cost: 4 


Effect: The Odious Hex weaves around a subject and 
makes them repellent. While hexed, the subject always 
counts as one level lower on the Social Standing table unless 
they were already Hated. This affects people of the subject’s 
own race. 


Danger: Low 


Requirement To Lift: The subject must construct an 
effigy of themselves from a unit each of Han Fiber, Barley, 
& Fool's Parsley. They must then insult the effigy as if they 
were insulting themselves until they can no longer think of 
insults. Finally, the subject must burn the effigy to free them- 
selves of the hex. 


Medium Danger Hexes 


The Evil Eye 
STA Cost: 8 


Effect: Casting The Evil Eye upon a subject weaves a web 
of misfortune around them which threatens their every 
move. Whenever the subject rolls a Fumble, they must roll 
twice and take the worse outcome. Additionally, the GM is 
encouraged to choose the subject whenever they would be 
randomly determining the target of a threat. 


Danger: Medium 


Requirement To Lift: The subject must acquire a unit of 
coral from the Great Sea (50 Crowns) and fashion it into an 
amulet with a DC:14 Fine Arts check. The amulet must be 
worn during the entirety of a full moon and will shatter at 
the sunrise, freeing you of the Hex. 


High Danger Hexes 


Bones of Glass 
STA Cost: 12 


Effect: Bones of Glass magically hollows the bones of the 
subject, making them prone to splintering. When the subject 
would suffer the Cracked Ribs Critical Wound, they instead 
suffer the Broken Ribs Critical Wound. When they would 
suffer the Fractured Arm/Leg Critical Wounds they instead 
suffer the Compound Arm/Leg Fracture Critical Wounds. 
When they would suffer the Minor Head Wound Criti- 
cal Wound, they instead suffer the Skull Fracture Critical 
Wound. Additionally, rolls made to stabilize or treat these 
critical wounds are made at a -3 penalty. 


Danger: High 


Requirement to Lift: The subject must acquire a war horse, 
a troll liver, meat from a wolf, 3 units of balisse leaves, and 
a bottle of spirits. Upon gathering these things, the subject 
must bleed the war horse, collecting some of the blood in a 
pot and add the liver, meat, and leaves to form a foul stew 
which takes 3 hours to cook. The subject must then con- 
sume the entire pot of stew within 1 hour and follow it by 
chugging the bottle of spirits. When they finish the bottle, 
the hex will have been lifted. 


Unending Need 
STA Cost: 8 


Effect: Unending Need causes the subject's body to be con- 
sumed by sloth and gluttony, requiring more sleep and food 
to function properly. The subject must get 10 hours of unin- 
terrupted sleep each night or take the -3 penalty on rolls 
for Sleep-Deprivation. Additionally, the subject must eat 5 
meals a day or halve their total STA for the next day. 


Danger: Medium 


Requirement to Lift: The subject must fast for 3 full days 
and 3 nights drinking only water and sleeping with sweets 
underneath their pillow. If the subject is able to perform this 
fast and not touch the sweets beneath their pillow the hex 
breaks on the morning of the fourth day. 


Hex of Forgetfulness 
STA Cost: 12 


Effect: The Hex of Forgetfulness submerges the subjects 
mind in a thick soup of magical obscurement making it 
difficult for them to retain knowledge and memories. The 
subject can no longer gain I.P. via being taught or study and 
practice, can no longer teach someone, and can no longer 
learn new magic. Additionally, once per day, the GM can call 
upon the subject to make a Resist Magic roll at a DC:20 or 
forget a fact, memory, recipe, spell, invocation, ritual, hex, or 
sign of the GM’s choice until the Hex is removed. 

Danger: High 

Requirement To Lift: The subject must shave their head of 
all hair and then prepare a paste of 2 units of essence of water 
and 2 units of river clay. The subject must then inscribe spe- 
cific sigils on their scalp with the clay and hold a unit of 
optima matter under their tongue. They must wait silently 
for a full day and night for the clay to dry. When the clay is 
removed from the scalp and the optima matter is removed 
from their mouth, the optima matter will be ashen gray and 
the hex will have been removed, returning anything forgot- 
ten. The optima matter used is permanently grayed and acts 
as a Focus (2) that can only be used for Hexes, Goetia, and 
Necromancy. 


“One should always remember 
that while they are more common 
than Goetia and Necromancy, 
Hexes and Curses are dark 
magic with terrible consequence. 
Many lives have been ruined 
by their casting.” 


— Glynnis var Treharne 


The Magical 
Marketplace 


“Present the average man a staff carved with twirling runes, capped with 
a glinting gem and he'll declare it magical. The carving may read ‘property 
of Adelheid’, the gem glass, but in his ignorance, he'll treat it like a mage’s 
prized artifact. Because next time it might explode in his face.” 


Despite well-earned paranoia about mages 
and sorcerers, most people can't resist want- 
ing a little bit of magic of their own. Magic 
items, enchantments, magic elixirs, love 
charms, and Gods know what. 


Having spent some time in the mind of a 
Witcher, I know that effective enchantments 
and magic potions do exist with the most 
powerful of them being the tools of witchers. 
For centuries, witchers have used these bits 
of magic to help them hunt down the nastiest 
creatures on the Continent. One might then 
expect that witchers are the source of many 
magic items. This would be far from the truth. 
Despite having been formed by all sorts of 
magics, witchers are not mages, not spell cast- 
ers. While they can use these items, they did 
not create them and most couldn't really tell 
you how they work. No, those capable of craft- 
ing these works of magic are almost invariably 
mages. So if these are not witcher secrets, why 
doesn't everyone have a rune etched sword and 
potions that let them see in the dark? There 
are two factors. Primarily, mages prefer to 
keep the majority of their magical creations to 
themselves. In some cases, such as the Megas- 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


cope or the Magical Amulet, this is because no 
mundane person could properly use the item 
in the first place. In other cases, the mage in 
question jealously guards the secrets of their 
creation to keep it rare and special, purpose- 
fully keeping the masses in darkness. And this, 
of course, leads to the secondary reason, these 
items are expensive. Mages who aren't attend- 
ing fancy convocations have to make money 
somehow. And price is based on perception of 
value. I would guess that any mage who moved 
into a village and started trading elixirs for a 
dozen eggs would be hunted down by the local 
magical fraternity. 


But it is now that we are able to pull back 
that curtain with the help of Glynnis and give 
a more thorough explanation of the workings 
of magical items. I will admit that as a for- 
mer-director of a magical academy, Glynnis 
knows more about this than I do and while she 
has tried to explain the theories to me I now 
understand how my students feel during my 
more obscure lectures. The processes of craft- 
ing stable magical items are esoteric and com- 
plicated, requiring a familiarity with chaos that 
I cannot claim. I would certainly have been sit- 


Potions 
VS Elixirs 


“Dear Reader, you will, 
Im sure be quick to point 
out that the potions for 
which witchers are so 
widely known are poison- 
ous to anyone who hasn't 
been mutated by the tri- 
als of the Witchers. This 
is of course, true, though 
in some cases regular 
‘non-mutants’ have ben- 
efited from these potions 
and the most skilled of 
alchemists have shown a 
capability to adapt these 
potions to make them 
less dangerous to the 
uninitiated.” 

—Brandon of Oxenfurt 


Relic Items 


‘I think it is far more 
interesting that items 
can take on magic all by 
themselves. Actually I 
think it’s related to curses 
and hexes. If you concen- 
trate enough emotion, 
enough intent, on an item 
it can take on magical 
aspects. If something is 
used over and over again 
by one person it can take 
on the emotion or the 
intent. Wooden spoons 
used by grandmothers, 
musical instruments used 
by bards, stilettos used by 
assassins.” 

—Brandon of Oxenfurt 


Crafting 
Enchantments 


“Now, what you'll prob- 
ably be wondering is, 
“Why the hell is all this 
so complicated?!” Etching 
runes into my blade ain't 
this difficult. Ya just etch 
the rune, and infuse the 
rune stone in it! Heh, well 
heres the problem. Ya 
aint exactly enchanting 
yer weapons right. Any 
runewright'll tell ya that 
etching a rune or a glyph 
aint easy if ya wanna get 
the most out of it. Heh, ya 
need the right tools and 
plenty of concentration 
and time. Runewords & 
glyphwords are so exact- 
ing that ya can't cut any 
corners when etching em. 
Gotta do the whole thing 
to get any effect.” 
—Rodolf Kazmer 


ting in the back row of her classes. While magic may spontaneously latch onto an item, the major- 
ity of magical items are created through rituals, which require specific treatments and magical 
incantations to bind magic to rune, crystals, and other focusing items in or on the intended piece. 


And as for love charms, charms to make people tell the truth, charms to grow pumpkins, and 
bring fish, these are far more often the fabrication of Hedge Magicians in need of coin. These 
lesser mages who have one minor ability can extend their “services” to people who truly want 
to believe in whatever they are sold. Some people can make being an old crone into a cottage 
industry. A cleaner at the university went into business selling little dolls made to look like who- 
ever the buyer had a strong loathing for. Supposedly anything done to the doll, happened to the 
victim. Interestingly one of her dolls actually worked. I believe that was one case that may have 
fallen into the magic by use category. It took 17 years, but in the end the victim was run over by 
a carter’s wagon. In Oxenfurt, fake mages selling beauty potions and magic knitting needles are 
far less common. The current rage for alchemy has caused many of them to change professions. 

—Brandon of Oxenfurt 


Glyphs 


While most known glyphs on the Continent expand the magical capabilities of a magic user, 
new glyphs are being discovered with every delve into elderfolk ruins. The following glyphs were 
brought to the Continent from Ofir not long ago. While rare in the North, these glyphs are some- 
times traded in southern Nilfgaard and some eventually make their way to major trading hubs 
such as Novigrad or Cidaris. Just like the glyphstones in the Core Rule Book, each of these new 
glyphs can be inscribed on a piece of armor with an open Enhancement Slot. This glyph is perma- 
nent and inscribing it uses up the glyphstone. 


Reinforcement 


While wearing this armor, whenever you would have 
a chance of bleeding, lower that chance by 30%. 


While wearing this armor, whenever you regain 
Hit Points, you regain 1 additional point. 


The armor’s Stopping Power increases by 3. 


While wearing this armor, you have resistance to damage 
dealt by an Elemental source such as fire or lightning. 


Enchantment: Runewords 


& Glyphwords 


Another magical practice flourishing in Ofir is the enchant- 
ment of items with runewords and glyphwords. These 
enchantments combine multiple runes or glyphs to create 
a unique magical effect. These effects can be very powerful 
but the magic binding them is very carefully woven and can 
be disrupted by other enchantments. A weapon or piece of 
armor can only ever benefit from one enchantment and can- 
not be inscribed with other runes or glyphs even if it has 


the process of etching the enchantment. If the rune or glyph 
already present is part of the desired enchantment you can 
add it to the enchantment; meaning you can build rune- 
words and glyphwords over time. 


To etch an enchantment into an item, the item must 
have a prerequisite number of open enhancement slots. A 
lesser enchantment takes up two enhancement slots, while a 
greater enchantment takes up three. You cannot benefit from 


more free enhancement slots. If the weapon or armor has 
a rune or glyph already etched onto it which is not part of 
the enchantment desired, that rune or glyph is destroyed in 


the same enchantment multiple times, even if they are on 
different items. 


Runewords 


The damage done by this weapon can change to fire damage 
Burning Lesser Weapon 


which bypasses Resistances to Slashing, Piercing, or Bludgeoning 


Damage. It can still be resisted by creatures immune or resistant 
to fire. The weapon does not cause the target to light on fire. 


While wielding this weapon you can make a check at a -6 with 
your weapon skill base when targeted by a ranged attack to 
parry the attack. If your roll beats the attacker's attack roll, you 
can choose a target within 10m. That target must take a defense 
action against your initial weapon skill roll or be Staggered 
by the flying projectile. If you have levels in the Parry Arrows 
ability, instead you gain a +2 to it when wielding this weapon. 


When casting a spell/invocation using this weapon as a 
focus, if your target fails to defend they lower their Stamina 
by 1d6 in addition to being affected by the spell. 


Taal : : 
Bescon ieee Wepen While carrying this weapon whenever you use Adrenaline 
dice the cost to your Stamina is 5 instead of 10. 


This weapon or shield’s Reliability increases by 5. 


When casting a spell/invocation using this weapon as a focus, 


if the spell/invocation has a duration expressed in dice (such 


Prolongation Lesser Weapon 
as 1d6 hours), roll twice and keep the highest result. 
Referees | Crate eopon Whenever you kill a creature with this weapon, you 
regain Stamina equal to your REC score. 
Attacks made with this weapon do an additional 1 
Shearing Lesser Weapon 


point of damage to the Stopping Power of Armor or 
the Reliability of Shields if they penetrate them. 


Name 


Balance 


Beguilement 


Heft 


Protection 


Retribution 


Rotation 


Shining 


Enhancement Slots 


Lesser 


Lesser 


Lesser 


Greater 


Greater 


Lesser 


Lesser 


Item 


Any Armor 


Head Armor 


Any Armor 


Torso Armor 


Any Armor 


Leg Armor 


Torso Armor 


Effects 
This armor’s Encumbrance Value is reduced by 1. 


While wearing this armor, you gain a +1 to Charisma, 
Grooming and Style, and Leadership. 


The Stopping Power of this armor is increased by 
2 but its Encumbrance Value is doubled. If this 
glyphword is used on an armor with an Encumbrance 
Value of 0 the Encumbrance value remains 0. 


While wearing this armor, your Hit Points are increased by 5. 


While wearing this armor, if you take damage from 
an attack, the attacker takes 3 points of damage to 
their torso which cannot be blocked by armor. 


While wearing this armor, attackers do not gain a bonus 
when attacking you from outside your Vision Cone. 


By taking an action to rub the rune word on your armor, 
you can make it shed light up to 6 meters from you for 
30 Minutes raising the light level to the level of daylight. 
Monsters that have a weakness or susceptibility to light 
or sunlight are affected by the light of this armor. 


It is possible to recreate the old techniques of crafting 
Enchantments, but the necessary requirements often make it 
a costly endeavor. Before crafting an enchantment, a crafts- 
man must have the diagram for the enchantment, the com- 
ponents, and a set of Runewright’s Tools. If an item you are 
attempting to enchant already has one of the runes or glyphs 


required by the enchantment it can be counted towards the 
components of the enchantment and is not destroyed. 


If you fail to craft an enchantment, you can attempt a 
recovery roll by rolling the same Crafting check again. If you 
succeed at this roll you can keep one rune or glyph used in 
the enchantment. The rest are lost. 


Journeyman Diagram 


Name Crafting DC Time Components Investment | Cost 
Runeword: Burning 15 1 Hour Chemobog (x1), Dazhbog (x1) 1175 2150 
Runeword: Placation 15 1 Hour Morana (x1), Stribog (x1) 1075 2150 

Runeword: Preservation 15 1 Hour Devana (x1), Morana (x1) 1150 2300 
Runeword: Prolongation 15 1 Hour Perun (x1), Svarog (x1) 1175 2150 
Runeword: Shearing 15 1 Hour Veles (x1), Zoria (x1) 1150 2300 
: Glyph of Mending (x1), 
Glyphword: Balance 15 1 Hour Genin oiteininacmant ell) 550 1100 
Glyphword: Beguilement 15 1 Hour | Glyph of Fire (x1), Glyph of Water (x1) 1150 2300 
: Glyph of Mending (x1), 
Glyphword: Heft INS 1 Hour Gogh wilecitoescean: Gil) 550 1100 
: F Glyph of Binding (x1), 
Glyphword: Rotation 15 1 Hour Aigalh o Retaizssmen (el) 300 600 
Glyphword: Shining 15 1 Hour | Glyph of Air (x1), Glyph of Warding (x1) 875 1750 


2 ODAC REET. SS. 


CraftingDC | Time 
1 Hour |Chemobog (x1), Perun (x1), Stribog (x1) 1650 3300 


Runeword: Deflection 
Runeword: Depletion 
Runeword: Rejuvenation 


Glyphword: Protection 


Glyphword: Retribution 


Adding Extra Slots 


The process of enchanting items isn't all that common in 
the world of the Witcher which means that many items 
have little to no room for enchantment. However, through 
a complex and costly process, a craftsman can add an 
empty enhancement slot to a weapon or piece of armor. 
To do so, the item in question must be at its full Reliabil- 
ity or Stopping Power value and the craftsman must have 


1 Hour Stribog (x1), Triglav (x1), Veles (x1) 3350 
1 Hour Perun (x1), Svarog (x1), Triglav (x1) 3500 


Glyph of Earth (x1), Glyph of Magic 
(x1), Glyph of Warding (x1) Ho 2200 
Glyph of Earth (x1), Glyph of Fire 
(x1), Glyph of Reinforcement (x1) eu 2200 


a set of Crafting Tools, 4 units of Meteorite, 2 units of 
Infused Dust, and the Enhancement Slot Diagram. With 
these prerequisites met, the craftsman can spend 4 hours 
to roll a Crafting check to attempt to add an enhancement 
slot to the item. This new enhancement slot can only hold 
runes or glyphs, and an item can only have a maximum of 
3 enhancement slots. 


Master Diagram 


Components 


Investment 


Enhancement Slot Meteorite (x4), Infused Dust (x2) 1368 


“I did once see an officer inscribing a rune onto his own s 
was effective in a limited way it was also quite messy. All wigg 


word in the field. While it 
ly lines and hardly any 


clean angles. It was such a waste of a wonderful artifact. Remember, it is always best 
to find a trained professional if you want your weapons enchanted. 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


Ne 


“If memory serves me correctly, the Usurpator once tasked the top alchemists in the 
Empire with reverse engineering potions stolen from a witcher of the Viper School. 
Obviously this endeavor was less than successful but it may have led to some of the 


elixirs used by Nilfgaardian infiltrators.” 


While magical potions are most commonly 
associated with witchers, there are many mag- 
ical elixirs peddled by mages and alchemists 
which are perfectly safe for non-mutants to 
ingest. These elixirs use magically reactive 
alchemical compounds and fifth essence to 
alter the imbiber’s physiology in desirable 
ways. Many knights, mages, and nobles keep 
vials of various elixirs on their person for var- 
ious needs throughout their day; making the 
business lucrative in areas where it isn't ille- 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


gal. This, of course, has given rise to hordes 
of elixir merchants who peddle colored water 
and alcohest mixed with unidentifiable herbs. 
Real elixirs are all considered rare and are 
generally only sold by mages or highly skilled 
alchemists. 


While they are safe enough for anyone to 
consume, they are still toxic in large doses 
meaning that a character who is not a witcher 
is affected by having a toxicity score above 
100% the same as witcher. 


The Evolution 
of Elixirs 


In many cases, the Elix- 
irs presented here are ei- 
ther based on infamous 
Witcher potions or 
served as the foundation 
upon which the Witcher 
potions were created. 


Halflings 
& Elixirs 


Unfortunately, due to 
their magic-resistant na- 
ture, a Halfling cannot 
benefit from any Elixir, 
no matter how many 
they drink. They can still 
be effected by the Toxici- 
ty of Elixirs, however. 


Drinking Anabolic Steroids gives a character +10 
maximum Hit Points, and +2 to Endurance and Physique 
for 10 minutes. On the other hand, it makes the drinker 
incredibly aggressive towards everyone for 1 hour. 


Anabolic 
Steroids 


A failed replica of the healing medicine of the dryads of 
Brokilon, Last Hope can repair the most grievous wounds 
at a cost. Drinking it treats 1 critical wound the drinker 
has but that critical wound will not heal unless a Doctor 
makes a DC:24 Healing Hands check to reapply the critical 
wound and then treats it again with Healing Hands. 


Mongoose 


Crafting Elixirs 


A favorite of courtiers and nobles, Mongoose renders the 
: : é Pe : 50% 0.1 50 
drinker immune to the poisoned condition for 30 minutes. 


The drinker forgoes the need for sleep for a 24-hour period. 
Doses of Strider used to be given to soldiers to allow them to 
cross more territory without exerting themselves. The costs 
of this potion quickly made it nonviable for large armies. 


Tempest channels the inherent elemental magic 
around a person. When making an attack or casting a 
spell that has a chance of inflicting the Fire, Freeze, or 

Prone effects, the percentage is increased by 10%. 


Lightning is the result of an attempt to recreate the 
Lightning Witchers’ Thunderbolt potion. It grants the drinker 
a +3 damage on your next physical attack. 


Crafting Elixirs is a process that requires a great deal of monetary investment and skill. In addition to the ingredients listed 
here, elixirs always require 1 bottle of alcohest in their creation. 


Journeyman Diagram 


Anabolic Steroids 
Lightning 


Journeyman Diagram 


Across the Continent enchanted or magical 
items range from rare and sought-after to 
so common they may as well be mundane. 
In general, this is thanks to how magic items 
get made. In the world of The Witcher most 
magic items are made in one of two ways. The 
first and least common method is through 
ambient magic and moments of powerful 
emotion. This is how many relics are made. 
Something like a curse, an item can have 
magic attach itself to the item in some unex- 
pected way. More often, a magic item is tailor 
made by a mage, priest, or druid for a spe- 
cific purpose. This item serves its purpose 
for the magic user and may never make it 
into circulation. But often times, the mage in 
question decides to sell this item, they teach 
others how to make it, or it gets stolen and 
replicated by someone else. And that’s how 
many of the magic items on this list wound 
up spreading across the Continent. 


That being said, most magic items are still 
quite rare since the knowledge and power to 
make them is also rare and most mages guard 


the secrets of their craft jealously. There are 
even some magic items that are so old that 
knowledge of how they came about is lost to 
time. These items are most often found in the 
tombs and ruins of the elderfolk, abandoned 
so long ago that even the elderfolk have no 
idea what they are. Much like Relic Items, 
Magic Items have an Education DC that must 
be rolled to determine the item's nature. Alter- 
natively, this check can be made with Magic 
Training. 


Enchanted amulets are created by the sorcer- 
esses and mages as a reservoir of magic and 
to allow mages to cast spells that they would 
otherwise be unable to. In more recent years, 
the secrets to the creation of enchanted amu- 
lets fell into the hands of the Druid Circle of 
Mayena and the Church of the Eternal Fire is 
said to also be in possession of a few enchanted 
amulets which they took from executed mages. 


“Thave worn an Enchanted 

Amulet once or twice in 
my life. The Empire keeps 
a number of them at 
Gweison Haul so a teacher 
can cast a certain spell 
when the Empire requires 
it. Invariably, the experi- 
ence is far from pleasant 
but less than excruciating. 
The fatigue is bearable but 
makes managing a class 
of youngsters far more 
difficult.” 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


Power Stones 


Power stones are com- 
mon across the world of 
magical items. These cut 
gemstones store magic 
and programmed com- 
mands. In most circum- 
stances they are used like 
remote controls for mag- 
ic items but they can also 
be used to create items 
with very simple auto- 
mated responses such as 
Power Stone Guardians. 


Every enchanted amulet counts as a 
Focus (2) item. In addition, the creator of 
an enchanted amulet may imbue it with the 
power to cast 1 to 4 spells. The magic inside 
the amulet draws on the wearer’s stamina 
to activate the spells and the wearer must 
have a Vigor Threshold high enough to cast 
a spell from the amulet. When casting the 
spells from an enchanted amulet, the wearer 
cannot make use of any focus other than the 
amulet to lower the stamina cost. Addition- 
ally, an enchanted amulet can allow priests & 
druids to cast spells as if they were a mage. 


Enchanted amulets have a drawback, 
however. Once more than one spell has 
been imbued in the amulet, the creator must 
also choose a drawback from the following 
list. These drawbacks remain as long as the 
enchanted amulet is worn, and for 24-hours 
afterward. The drawbacks can be: 


¢ The wearer's maximum Hit Points are 
reduced by 5. 


¢ The wearer experiences a constant head- 
ache giving them a -1 to INT, WILL, and 
REE 


« The wearer fatigues more easily and 
reduces their maximum Stamina by 10. 


Spell Formulae 
(Education DC:14) 


Spell formulae are used by teachers of magic 
to ensure their pupils understand the under- 
lying theories and risks involved with cast- 
ing particular spells. While many lay people 
believe these papers to hold magical potential 
(and many are sold as such), no spell can be 
cast through a spell formula. When using a 
spell formula, you gain +2 to your skill check 
to learn a specific spell, invocation, hex, sign, 
or ritual. 


Gateway Portal 
(Education DC:18) 


Gateway portals are an ancient means of 
transportation used by the elves long ago. In 
essence, they are the same as a standing por- 
tal, but they are fixed between two points. 


There are many broken and non-functional 
gateway portals left across the Continent. So 
long as the entry portal remains undamaged, 
its magic is strong and reliable enough to 
transport people crossing it to its exit point. 
Entering a gateway portal instantly teleports 
you to a point designated by its creator. A 
Magical Training check DC:14 allows a mage 
to know where the portal leads before cross- 
ing. There are many different activators for 
a Gateway portal ranging from passwords 
which must be spoken aloud to small gem- 
stones called power stones which must be 
carried to open the portal. 


Wishing Mirror 
(Education DC:16) 


No one knows when these mirrors were cre- 
ated, by whom, and for what purpose. All 
that’s known is that a small number of them 
were circulated throughout the Continent, 
sold by a traveling merchant. At first, these 
mirrors adorned the walls of lavish manors 
and castles but as their magical properties 
began to become apparent they began to 
filter into black markets and private collec- 
tions. These magic mirrors are very danger- 
ous, and their effects are used by parents 
everywhere to warn their children against 
spending too much time in front of a mirror 
and avoid vanity. 


A wishing mirror allows a person to view 
their deepest desires within. When looking 
through the mirror, the onlooker sees their 
ideal self-image in a location they've always 
dreamt of and owning all the property they've 
dreamt of owning. While looking into the 
mirror, a person falls into a trance of sorts, 
seeing themselves within the mirror, enjoy- 
ing the bountiful life just beyond the glass. 
These visions quickly become addictive and 
after gazing into the mirror once, a viewer 
must make a Resist Magic check DC:18. On 
a failure, the viewer is compelled to look into 
the mirror for at least 1 hour every day. At 
the end of each period, the viewer can make 
a new Resist Magic check. On a failure, the 
duration increases by 1 hour for the next 
24-hour period. On a success, the duration 


is lessened by 1 hour. Additionally, for every 
day that the viewer succeeds in not looking 
at the mirror, the duration is lessened by 1 
hour. When the duration becomes 0 hours, 
the viewer is no longer under the magic of the 
mirror. If the duration ever reaches 24 hours, 
the viewer can no longer withdraw their gaze 
from the mirror even for basic needs such as 
eating and drinking. Without help, they are 
liable to die. 


If the mirror is destroyed while someone 
is under its sway, that person becomes sul- 
len and depressive for a month afterwards. 
They feel as though their life itself has been 
shattered and nothing brings them even the 
smallest amount of joy. This imposes a -2 to 
all actions they attempt. 


Eye of Nehaleni 
(Education DC:16) 


Eyes of Nehaleni are rare magical objects that 
have begun to resurfaced in the last decade. 
These round stone tablets have inscriptions of 
a complex variation of the symbol of Nehaleni, 
the Nordling goddess of fate & illusion. Hold- 
ing the tablet aloft and calling to the goddess 
allows a person to attempt to dispel illusions. 
By taking an action you can make a Spell Cast- 
ing check with a +4 bonus against the original 
check made to create the illusion or a DC set 
by the GM. If you succeed, the illusion ends. 
The Eye of Nehaleni does not require you to 
spend any Stamina to dispel an illusion. 


Travelers through the North have noticed a 
lone individual, cloaked in heavy leather and 
furs, leave such items in remote shrines to the 
goddess. Of course, the resurgence of the eyes 
have also led to a new market for fake Eyes of 
Nehaleni, so take what you hear at the Novig- 
rad market with a grain of salt. 


Four-Leaf Clover 
(Education DC:10) 


These magical, dried, four-leaf clovers are 
rumored to be given by puckish relicts known 
as griggs to people who help them, or as con- 
solation to the victims of their pranks. More 


commonly, they can be found at market stalls 
that sell magical goods. A four-leaf clover 
grants a temporary +1 to your Luck. Without 
taking an action, you can expend this Four- 
Leaf Clover to gain a +1 to your next check. 
Once this point has been used, the clover dis- 
integrates. 


Crystal Skull 
(Education DC:16) 


For many mages it’s very useful to have a 
small animal at hand to run errands and 
deliver letters, but not as convenient to con- 
stantly be caring for a pet. This dilemma 
gave birth to the Crystal Skull, a crystallized 
animal skull, permeated with magic which 
can transform into a physical animal. Upon 
speaking an activation word, the skull trans- 
forms into the animal it came from (cat, dog, 
bird, or serpent). The animal responds to 
your mental commands as long as you are 
within 50m, and will act like a regular ani- 
mal of its kind should you give it no com- 
mands. Upon death, the animal reverts to an 
inert crystal skull. The Crystal Skull can be 
recharged by performing the Create Crystal 
Skull ritual (see pg.102) using only 2 units 
of Fifth Essence and the inactive skull. The 
animal summoned from a skull is always the 
same animal. 


Magical Elven Rope 
(Education DC:18) 


Crafted by the elves and carried throughout 
the Continent with elven scouting parties, 
these tightly woven white ropes are imbued 
with magic which allows them to move with 
the will of their holder. The rope can twist and 
cling to people reaching out for it, tie itself 
around objects that it is laid on, and retract 
back to the holder. While the rope is capable 
of tying itself around people, it never does 
this fast enough to grapple a resisting crea- 
ture. When climbing with this rope, you gain 
a +5 bonus to Athletics checks made to climb. 
Finally, the rope, despite is delicate nature, is 
nigh unbreakable, able to support 300kg of 
weight and take 50 points of damage. 


Power of 
Compulsion 


“Been lucky enough to 
never look into a Wish- 
ing Mirror or meet the 
man who sold ‘em. But 
Ive seen folk who have. 
Heh, not a pretty sight. 
Got so wrapped up in 
their dreams they stopped 
eating and drinking, and 
wasted away. Just a husk 
in front of some glass.” 
—Rodolf Kazmer 


Sabotaged 
Megascopes 


“It is not entirely uncom- 
mon for a mage in Nilf- 
gaard to suffer the effects 
of a damaged megas- 
cope. To the unaided eye, 
the damage necessary to 
destabilize a megascope 
is nearly impossible to 
spot and can be caused 
by the slightest drop. Still, 
rumors persist that agents 
of the Empire plant dam- 
aged gemstones in the 
megascopes of mages they 
consider dangerous or 
close to rebellion.” 
—Glynnis var Treharne 


Runewright’s Tools 
(Education DC:16) 


Beyond the everyday crafting tools used to 
inscribe runes and glyphs, Runewright’s Tools 
contain super fine chisels, metal guides, and 
stabilizing compounds to set the magic of an 
enchantment. A set of Runewright’s Tools is 
required to craft runewords and glyphwords. 
Additionally, taking % hour to etch a rune or 
glyph into an item with a set of Runewright'’s 
Tools grants an additional benefit based on the 
rune or glyph: 


¢ Chemobog Rune: Your weapon only 
takes damage if the value rolled is a 1 or 2. 


¢ Dazhbog Rune: The chance of Fire raises 
to 40%. 


¢ Devana Rune: The chance of Bleed raises 
to 40%. 


¢ Morana Rune: The chance of Poison 
raises to 40%. 


¢ Perun Rune: Each time you use an 
Adrenaline Die, if the valued rolled is a 1 
you keep the die. 


¢ Stribog Rune: The chance of Stagger 
raises to 40%. 


¢ Svarog Rune: Instead of Armor Pierc- 
ing, your weapon gains Improved Armor 
Piercing. 

¢ Triglav Rune: The penalty to Stun raises 
by 1. 

¢ Veles Rune: The weapon also gains the 
Focus (1) effect. 


« Zoria Rune: The chance of Freeze raises 


to 40%. 

¢ Glyph of Earth: The bonus to Spell DC 
raises by 1. 

¢ Glyph of Air: The bonus to Spell DC 
raises by 1. 

¢ Glyph of Fire: The bonus to Spell DC 
raises by 1. 

¢ Glyph of Water: The bonus to Spell DC 
raises by 1. 

¢ Glyph of Magic: The bonus to Spell DC 
raises by 1. 


¢ Glyph of Mending: The additional 
Health Points gained raises to 2. 


¢ Glyph of Reinforcement: The additional 
Stopping Power raises by 1. 


¢ Glyph of Warding: You gain a +1 to 
Resist Magic while wearing this armor. 


¢ Glyph of Binding: The penalty to the 
chance of bleeding raises to -40%. 


Megascope 
(Education DC:14) 


One of the most complex wonders of the magi- 
cal world, the Megascope is a device composed 
of several lenses, magic focuses, and perfectly 
carved gemstones. It’s difficult to determine 
exactly who invented the Megascope or when 
but it has become a household item for the sor- 
cerous elite. The complex contraption focuses 
a mage’s power and aids with magic cast over 
great distances, especially teleportation and 
communication. 


A Megascope must be arranged in a wide 
circle ona flat surface and activated by a person 
with a Vigor Threshold of at least 1. No spe- 
cial ritual is required to activate a Megascope. 
Once activated the Megascope can be used in 
one of two ways. Firstly, the Megascope can be 
used to contact another person with a Megas- 
cope or Telecommunicator. There is no earthly 
limit to the distance of communication, but a 
Megascope cannot facilitate communication 
with things beyond the dimension in which 
it is used. The recipient of the communication 
can choose to answer the communication; in 
which case the Megascope creates a spectral 
form of the recipient within the circle, allow- 
ing communication as if the participants were 
in the same room. Secondly, a Megascope can, 
with a DC:16 Spell Casting check, be used to 
view a person the user has a strong emotional 
connection to. If the person being viewed is a 
mage they can sense the augury if they roll a 
Magic Training check that beats your initial 
Spell Casting check, but they cannot see who 
is spying on them. This remote viewing can 
be maintained for up to 10 minutes before the 
connection fades and the user must keep all of 
their focus on the megascope. 


Additionally, once a connection has been estab- 
lished, a Megascope can act as a channel for telepor- 
tation. While your Megascope is connected to or 
remotely viewing a person, you can cast the Telepor- 
tation or Standing Portal spells to transport yourself 
to that location. If using Teleportation, there is no 
Spell Casting check required to teleport. 


Unfortunately, the complex nature of the Megas- 
cope means that it must be in perfect working order 
for it to be safely utilized. If one of the Gemstones 
in a Megascope is damaged in even the slightest 
way the Megascope becomes unstable. A gemstone 
can be damaged by being struck, knocked out of 
the Megascope, scratched, or anything else that 
might mar its perfect surface. Additionally, due to 
the highly magical nature of a Megascope, bringing 
any amount of Dimeritium within 3m of a Mega- 
scope will damage all the Gemstones at a nearly 
imperceptible level. 


If this happens while you are communicat- 
ing with someone or you attempt to activate the 
Megascope with a damaged or imperfect gem- 
stone, the image just become a bit shakier than 
usual requiring a DC:20 Awareness check to 
notice. However, the real danger comes when try- 
ing to remotely view a target or teleport through 
a damaged Megascope. If you attempt to remotely 
view a target through a damaged Megascope 
the DC raises to 25 and if you fail to beat this 
check any damaged gemstones in the Megascope 
explode, dealing 1d6 damage to every location on 
the body of anyone within 4m. This renders the 
Megascope useless until the Perfect Gemstones 
can be replaced. If you attempt to teleport through 
a damaged Megascope far worse things happen. If 
you cast the Standing Portal Spell with a damaged 
Megascope, the spell automatically fails as though 
you had rolled a fumble with a value of 10 and 
all 3 Gemstones in the Megascope will explode, 
dealing 3d6 damage to every location on the body 
of anyone within 6m. If you attempt to cast the 
Teleportation spell within a damaged Megascope 
the magic begins to rend you apart violently. Any- 
one within the range of their SPD Statistic has 
one chance to make a DC:14 Athletics check to 
remove the damaged crystal before your body is 
torn apart and the individual pieces lie scattered 
across the Continent. If they succeed, the Megas- 
cope powers down and you are unharmed. If they 
fail, you die a messy death. 


The Pricing 
of Magic 


Note that the prices pre- 
sented here should be 
used as guidelines. Mag- 
es may sell these items 
for more or less depend- 
ing on their situation. 


Power Stone Guardian 
(Education DC:16) 


These sculpted gems are enchanted to protect 
an area from intruders. While the power stone 
itself is a small gemstone, it can be placed in a 
variety of settings. Power Stone Guardians can 
take many forms such as doors, statues, or even 
chandeliers. The consensus seems to be that 
a power stone guardian must be made from 
an object sturdy enough to resist accidental 
destruction. The power stone within this object 
emits a faint magical aura that becomes stron- 
ger the closer it is, meaning that a mage can 
detect one with Magic Training and a Witcher’s 
Medallion will vibrate when near one. 


A power stone needs to be attuned to some- 
one. The creator of this object can attune it 
to someone else, who then has the power to 
attune it to others by placing their hands on 
the stone. In large cities, you will find that 
almost all noble houses are guarded by Power 
Stone Guardians of some form and even some 
middle class residences may have one guard- 
ing their valuables. 


There are as many types of power stone 
guardians as there are paranoid mages, but the 
three presented here are the most common. 


« Alarm Power Stone: When an unattuned 
creature moves within 6m of the stone, 
it sends a telepathic message to those 
attuned to it. The stone can only alert 
the attuned creatures that someone has 
entered the area but cannot tell them who 
the intruders are. 


¢ Arcing Power Stone: When an unat- 
tuned creature comes within 6m of the 
stone, it immediately rolls an attack at a 
base 10 to release a small bolt of light- 
ning that deals 2d6 damage. This attack 
can be dodged or blocked with a shield. 
After this point the Arcing Power Stone 
enters the initiative order at the bottom 
and attacks every round so long as an 
unattuned person remains in the area. 


¢ Illusion Power Stone: When an unat- 
tuned creature comes within 2m of the 
stone, the magic inside creates an illusory 
guard who appears to have just come 


onto the scene within 10m. The guard is 
dressed and armed in the manner dic- 


tated when the power stone is created. 
The illusion can shout a short phrase 
and can move about within 10m of the 
stone. The illusion cannot interact with 
anything otherwise, nor can it damage 
anything. The illusion lasts for 8 hours, 
or until dispelled. 


Bonding Pair 
(Education DC:16) 


These ornate silver rings are magically 
bonded to each other, allowing the wearers 
to communicate over great distances and 
sense when their partner is in danger. It is 
said that the original pair was created by a 
Nilfgaardian mage by the name of Ainfra of 
Mag Turga who crafted the pair for her lover, 
a witcher on the Path. The diagrams for these 
rings were taken from her dwelling when she 
was found to have disappeared. Some say, 
she left abruptly after sensing her lover was 
in danger and never returned. It is rumored 
that her creation is now widely used by Nilf- 
gaardian spies. 


This item always comes in a set of 2 rings. 
When a wearer turns the ring in a specific 
sequence around their ring finger, they can 
speak a few words, roughly twenty, to be car- 
ried on the wind to the wearer of the other 
ring. The message always reaches its destina- 
tion in less than a day, but the exact amount 
of time depends on distance and is left to the 
Game Master. 


Additionally, the rings vibrate when one of 
the wearers is in mortal danger regardless of 
the distance between the two. 


Purchasing Magic Items 


While som i i 
w eee hee peddle eee wares or make items ered Rare and can sometimes be found on sale in markets 
, the magical item industry in the world of across the Continent, or for sale by mages looking to fund 


The Witcher is very limited. All Magic Items are consid- _ their other ventures 


Enchanted Amulet (4 spells) 
Eye of Nehaleni 
Four-Leaf Clover 


Re aaa 


“In Nilfgaard, most magic items are made on commission by the mages of Gweison 
Haul or guild affiliated artisans who adhere to the strict quality regulations of the 


their guild. I'm sure there is an underground market for magic items but I’ve made 
a point to never go looking for it. I have heard from Master Kazmer that there are a 
number of ways to buy magical items in the North, though not all of them are repu- 
table. He especially mentioned a castle in Cidaris known as Rissberg. I had heard the 
name in passing but having never traveled the Northern Realms outside of an army I 
didn’t know much about it. He tells me this castle is inhabited by mages who make all 
manner of magical items to sell across the North. Though from his description it would 
seem that they do this mostly to raise funds for their own unethical experiments or to 
test the results of said experiments. I certainly hope the Nilfgaardian Army is stopped 
before they reach this castle. I can only imagine what they would force these mages to 


do in the name of the Emperor...” 


— Glynnis var Treharne : 


pans week 


Trophies 


It’s not unusual for great warriors to carry trophies of hunts 
they've been on or enemies they've defeated but decades 
ago a process was created to imbue those trophies with 
magical power. While no one knows exactly who created 
this process, most mages agree that it was likely one of the 
mages involved in the creation of Witchers, as they are most 
often seen carrying these magical trophies. By inscribing 
runes and often utilizing the naturally magical structures 
in a monster’s body a magic user can bind a magical effect 
to part of a dead creature. 


When an adult monster has been killed, a single piece 
of the monster can be removed and used as part of the 


Imbue Trophy Ritual to create a magical trophy which 
grants its wearer a certain benefit as long as they are phys- 
ically touching the trophy. To benefit from the trophy, you 
must have contributed to killing the monster in some way, 
meaning that you cannot gain the magical benefits of a 
trophy you buy. A single person can only have one active 
trophy at a time and trying to carry another trophy grants 
no magical benefits. You can choose to benefit from the 
effects of a different trophy by spending 1 hour in medi- 
tation over your trophy. In addition to the magical effect, 
each trophy you carry grants +1 Reputation (Maximum 
+4) as a slayer of monsters. 


Botchling 
Vendigo 


Werewolf 


You become Feared and if you already were Feared the bonuses are doubled. 
You gain a +2 to Physique and Wilderness Survival checks. 


Draconids 


Cockatrice 


Phoenix 


Slyzard 


Wyvern 


Earth Elemental 
Fire Elemental 
Golem 


Ice Elemental 


Your attacks deal double ablation damage to weapons, shields, or armor. 


Creatures you damage with your attacks have a 25% chance to catch on fire. 
You are immune to bleeding. 
Creatures you damage with your attacks have a 25% chance to be frozen. 


Hybrids 
When rolling for a critical wound, roll twice and keep the result of your choice. 
You raise the DC to resist or remove the effects of poisons you use by 2. 


camenuue Your social standing improves by one step (Hated becomes 
beac Tolerated, Tolerated becomes Equal). 


Arachasae 


Frightener 


Bullvore 


Foglet 
Grave Hag 


Fiend 


Leshen 


Shaelmaar 


Hym 


Noonwraith 


Pesta 


Bruxa 
Garkain 


Katakan 


Cyclops 


Rock Trolls 
Troll 


Insectoid 
You are immune to poison. 


You gain resistance to either slashing, piercing, or bludgeoning damage. Each 
day, you can change which type of damage you have resistance to. 


Necrophages 


If you would be targeted by a Necrophage and there is another target 
within range, the Necrophage chooses the other target. 


You gain a +2 to Stealth and Sleight of Hand checks 
You gain a +2 to Ritual Crafting and Hex Weaving checks 


Relicts 


You gain a +2 to Spell Casting and Resist Magic checks 


Animals and beasts can understand you when you speak and you can enter verbal 
combat with them to get them to obey you. Regardless, an animal or a beast will never 
do something for you it would not do for itself (for example, jump off a cliff). 


You add +2 to Spell Casting when casting earth-based spells and signs 


Specters 


When the damage you deal is negated by armor, your target still 
takes 4 points of damage that goes through their armor. 


You become immune to fear. 


You are constantly surrounded by a cloud of flies. Opponents in melee with you 
have a -2 to their actions and a 10% chance to gain the diseased condition. You also 
take a -2 to Seduction, Persuasion, and Grooming and Style because of the flies. 


Vampires 
You can communicate telepathically with characters within 20m of you. 


If you would subtract from your Stun on a Stun Save subtract one less. If 
there is no subtraction your Stun Value is counted as 1 higher. 


Creatures you damage with your attacks have a 25% chance to bleed. 
Ogroid 


When you would be stunned by a spell, you can choose to attack the nearest living target 
to you to resist the stun effect. Any other effects from the magic apply as normal. 


You add 1 to the range multiplier of thrown weapons you wield. 
It takes twice as much alcohol to get you intoxicated, and you never get hung over. 
Beasts 
People you grapple have a -2 penalty on their attempt to escape your grapple. 


You double your climbing speed. 


The Dark Arts 


“To work magic is to twist the threads of the world itself into patterns you 
desire, an awesome and beautiful responsibility. Some threads are rotten 
and will tangle even as you weave, leaving vile images that stain the soul 
and endanger the body even while delivering their grim results.” 


@O@G 


Personally, I would have left this chapter out 
entirely. The dark arts. Arts? Why do people 
who have the darkest souls get to be artists? 
Are we so afraid of them that we must hedge 
our bets? 


There are forbidden magical arts; necro- 
mancy, goetia, and mutation. Who are they 
forbidden by? Well, certainly all the Northern 
Kingdoms. Though, I’m not sure the law is 
what keeps people from summoning demons. 
I would guess that only the most learned can 
cast the rituals and a good proportion of those 
are dragged off to some uncomfortable place. 
I've always said that strong magical skills are 
generally paired with hubris and this is a per- 
fect example. 


Necromancy is magic dealing with the 
dead. Goetia is about summoning demons, 
and mutations are the attempt to change one- 
self or others physically with the application 
of powerful magics and chemicals. The things 
they have in common seem to be casting 
something that is very dangerous that deals 
with matters that you and I know should not 
be tampered with. 


There are many stories about demon sum- 
moning and in most of them the sorcerer gets 
exactly what youd expect. They are betrayed 
by the demons and are lucky if they just die. 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


YO 


Who could have seen that coming? People 
summon demons because they want the use 
of the greater powers of the demon. There 
are always people who will do anything to 
get more power and so they attempt to con- 
trol something or someone who has greater 
power. Inevitably the “controlled” realize 
they can mash the “controller” like a bug. The 
words “greater power than you” should tell 
you something. I’m not generally very meta- 
physical, but even I believe attempting to 
summon demons darken the soul. I checked 
that with Glynnis, and it is frequently true 
that those who attempt to use dark powers 
become more and more obsessed. They do 
not get up on a fine morning and think “T 
think Pll summon a demon today” and if it 
doesn’t work, they go off and take up pottery. 
No, a darkness resides in the soul. Some of 
you have probably encountered someone who 
just seems to have a shadow about them. You 
decided you probably won't trust that person 
and it may well have been for a good reason. 


Necromancy may be all to do with the 
power of the one summoned back from the 
dead, it may be a desire to find out informa- 
tion that may have been taken to the grave, 
or it may just be a fond wish for someone 
who has left this world. Some have suggested 
raising armies of the dead and using them to 


A Brief Warning 


The world of the Witch- 
er is a dark place with a 
lot of dubious practices 
and ethical nightmares. 
Magic is often wielded 
by the morally bankrupt 
and it dabbles in many 
dark places. In this chap- 
ter, we will be discussing 
three of the darkest top- 
ics in the magic of The 
Witcher: | Necromancy, 
Mutation, &  Goetia. 
These topics are filled 
with unpleasant imagery 
regarding, defiling corps- 
es, torture, body horror, 
and much more. As with 
everything in this book, 
this chapter is designed 
to give you more options 
to tell gripping stories in 
the world of The Witch- 
er. But its not our goal 
to traumatize anyone or 
make anybody uncom- 
fortable. Before you dive 
into the dark arts it’s not 
a bad idea to talk to your 
players and determine 
exactly how dark you 
want your game to get 
and what everybody is 
comfortable with. 


save the living. It turns out that all these ideas have many 
negative side effects. Oddly, most people do not want to be 
dragged from wherever they are to chat and do not mis- 
take, persons brought back through necromancy are not 
suddenly made alive. They are here, but they’re still dead. 
Hen Gedymdeith, one of the original human mages, dis- 
covered that creatures reanimated from the dead are erratic 
and undependable. His experimentation put a stop to the 
idea of the walking dead army. 


Mutation is only included here because the mutation of 
sapient beings is also banned in most Northern Kingdoms. 
Most people have heard of the dramatic and painful muta- 
tion of Witchers. Only a small percent survive, and this is 
with knowledge that has come down through the years. The 
Witchers know that mutation is dangerous, and they keep 


it away from non-witchers. What happens to those that 
don't survive the mutations? They are frequently deformed 
in terrible ways, sometimes with decreased mental abili- 
ties, and do not live long. You're probably thinking “For the 
strength and speed of a witcher, I'd take a chance.” But who 
would you get to mutate you? The Witchers will not mutate 
someone who is not a witcher acolyte and any other muta- 
tions, by mages perhaps, are all experimental. We have no 
legacy of mutation to depend upon, so you are truly rolling 
dice in a game that has no winners. 


Reader, please view these pages only as a warning. We 
educate you so you can avoid all these soul-twisting magics, 
but I know some of you will think “Tt won't happen to me!” 
On your head be it. 


— Brandon of Oxenfurt 


“In many ways, I have more reason than most to 
want to bury the practices of Goetia and the other 
dark arts. But that is not the way of an academic and 
I must remind myself of that. Forbidding a practice 
only makes it more enticing and the greatest Uy a 
person can have against a threat is knowledge of said 
threat. While some may use this compilation of. foul 
magic to do harm, I can only hope that many more 
will use the following pages to better defend themselves 
against the dangers of the dark arts. With any luck, 

by presenting not only the benefits of the dark arts but 
also, the many prices that must be paid to use them we 
will deter desperate young practitioners from sealing 
their fates and very likely damning their souls.” 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


Necromancy walks a dangerous line in the world of magic, 
using unknown forces to bind souls for various reasons. 
What makes it particularly tricky is that it rarely works 
exactly as its caster envisions. Many young magic users are 
drawn to necromancy by loss. After the death of a loved one, 
the magic user is consumed with guilt and grief and eventu- 
ally seeks a way to reverse their loss with magic. They turn 
to necromancy to return their loved one to life. But this isn’t 
how necromancy works. The crux of necromancy comes in 
the difference between Reanimation and Resurrection. 


In resurrecting a person, you bring them back to life with 
everything they once had. By the power of magic a once- 
dead person is returned to the state they were before they 
died. Their mind, body, thoughts, memories, and so on are 
all intact. In reanimating a corpse, however, you temporar- 
ily bring the functions of a body back to life, restarting the 
heart, and causing neurons to fire in their brain once again. 
Despite many rumors, reanimation is all necromancy is 
capable of in the world of The Witcher. When a necroman- 


cer reanimates a corpse, they are calling upon unknown and 
unnatural magic to drag a soul back from whatever afterlife 
may or may not exist to restart the bodily functions of the 
corpse. The corpse does not heal itself, or grow whole again, 
and the soul is dragged back into a corpse which has already 
begun to decay. Between the dark magic’s crushing grip on 
the soul, the body’s wounds, and the decay, this places the 
reanimated person in unimaginable agony. This pain is so 
terrible that even if the necromancer could bind the soul 
permanently, the creature would eventually die again from 
the shock. When necromancy is employed by seasoned Nec- 
romancers it is almost always used to gain information from 
a corpse, by either reviving its brain to study its memories 
or reviving the corpse to interrogate it. But even in this case, 
necromancy is far from tame. 


The practice of necromancy was banned by the Council 
of Mages many decades ago and even now the only way to 
legally study the practice is to get a dispensation from the 
conclave to study the theory of necromancy. This is largely 


because even “safely” cast necromancy meddles with magic 
that is not only poorly understood but also noticeably dan- 
gerous. Similar to goetia, the magic that makes necromancy 
possible is drawn from some dark place beyond scholarly 
knowledge. When necromancy is cast, the world itself seems 
to react with palpable discomfort. For most mages, the 
practice of casting necromancy is described as a physically 
revolting experience, comparable to consuming live insects 
or swimming in filth. To make matters worse, beyond this 
discomfort, a failure to properly control the magic of necro- 
mancy can lead to horrible consequences. 


The Dangers of Necromancy 


When a person performing necromancy fumbles their Spell 
Casting or Ritual Crafting roll or overdraws magic, they do 
not suffer an elemental effect. Instead, their clumsy med- 
dling in the realm beyond disturbs the spirits of the dead. 
After taking an amount of damage equal to the fumble value, 
refer to the Restless Spirits table. You suffer the effects of the 
rolled number and the effects of all previous numbers on the 
table's column. For Example: if you roll an 8 when fumbling 
a Journeyman Ritual, you summon wraiths, are affected by a 


Hex, and are a gateway for spirits for 1 day. 


Restless Spirits iguanas. ft gan 8s ee le eg ee 


Novice 


Gateway 
You become a gateway for local spirits for 1 day. During this time, you occasionally hear whispers and feel 
people brushing against you that you cannot see. You gain a +2 bonus to any checks made to perform any 
necromancy Ritual or Spell. However, you must roll on the Restless Spirit table whenever you roll a 1,2, or 3. 


Uninvited Guests 
You have attracted an unknown spirit from beyond. It is too weak to attack you or possess you, but it refuses 
to leave. This spirit remains in your vicinity, mimicking the effect of a single Hex (of the Game Master’s 
choice). You cannot remove this Hex by the standard means. Instead, you must kill or banish this specter. 
This can be done by summoning the spirit with a Seance (which does not require blood from a relative) 
and killing it or convincing it to leave. You can be affected by multiple Uninvited Guests at once. 


Host of Specters 
Immediately upon rolling this result, 1d6 Wraiths are summoned within 5m of the caster. These wraiths 
are violent and cannot be reasoned with. They will attack the closest target and will fight to the death. 


Journeyman 


Gateway 
You become a gateway for local spirits for 1 day. During this time, you occasionally hear whispers and feel 
people brushing against you that you cannot see. You gain a bonus +2 bonus to any checks made to perform any 
necromancy Ritual or Spell. However, you must roll on the Restless Spirit table whenever you roll a 1,2 or 3. 


Uninvited Guests 
You have attracted an unknown spirit from beyond. It is too weak to attack you or possess you, but it refuses 
to leave. This spirit remains in your vicinity, mimicking the effect of a single Hex (of the Game Master’s 
choice). You cannot remove this Hex by the standard means. Instead, you must kill or banish this specter. 
This can be done by summoning the spirit with a Seance (which does not require blood from a relative) 
and killing it or convincing it to leave. You can be affected by multiple Uninvited Guests at once. 


Host of Specters 
Immediately upon rolling this result, 1d6 Wraiths are summoned within 5m of the caster. These wraiths 
are violent and cannot be reasoned with. They will attack the closest target and will fight to the death. 


Tainted Ground 
Immediately upon rolling this result, the area where the caster was casting the Necromantic Spell or 
Ritual is affected by a powerful curse known as “The Haunting.” The Game Master may decide what must 
be done to remove this curse, but it should reflect the danger of the Curse (Core Book, pg.230). 


| 7-8 


Roll 


1-2 


3-4 


Master 


_L 


Gateway 
You become a gateway for local spirits for 
1 day. During this time, you occasionally 
hear whispers and feel people brushing 
against you that you cannot see. You gain 
a bonus +2 bonus to any checks made to 
perform any necromancy Ritual or Spell. 
However, you must roll on the Restless 
Spirit table whenever you roll a 1,2 or 3. 


Uninvited Guests 
You have attracted an unknown spirit from 
beyond. It is too weak to attack you or possess 
you, but it refuses to leave. This spirit remains 
in your vicinity, mimicking the effect of a 
single Hex (of the Game Master’s choice). 
You cannot remove this Hex by the standard 
means. Instead, you must kill or banish this 
specter. This can be done by summoning 
the spirit with a Seance (which does not 
require blood from a relative) and killing it 
or convincing it to leave. You can be affected 
by multiple Uninvited Guests at once. 


5-6 


9-10 | 


| where the caster was casting the Necromantic 


Host of Specters 
Immediately upon rolling this result, 1d6 
Wraiths are summoned within 5m of the 

caster. These wraiths are violent and cannot 
be reasoned with. They will attack the 
closest target and will fight to the death. 


Tainted Ground 
Immediately upon rolling this result, the area 


Spell or Ritual is affected by a powerful 
curse known as “The Haunting.” The Game 
Master may decide what must be done to 
remove this curse, but it should reflect the 
danger of the Curse (Core Book, pg.230). 


The Penitent 
Immediately upon rolling this result, a Penitent 
is summoned within 5m of the caster. The 
Penitent is bound to the caster and focuses 
entirely on destroying the caster. This Penitent 
will return to the caster every night until it 
is killed or banished, or it kills the caster. 


Spells 


Due to the dangerous nature of necromancy, necromantic spells are relatively uncommon. Most practitioners prefer to have a 
more structured environment which might lead to more stable magic in the end. Two necromantic spells are well known by 
the necromancers of the Continent. Both spells are technically illegal, though Corpse Restoration is sometimes utilized by less 


moralistic mages in studies and investigations. 


Corpse Restoration 

Level: Journeyman 

STA Cost: 7 

Effect: Corpse Restoration uses magic to restore the muscle, 
flesh, skin, and hair of a targeted corpse in ghostly form. 
The restored corpse appears to be a slightly translucent ver- 
sion of the person they were at the moment they died. Any 
wounds the targeted corpse had sustained before they died 
are present in this illusory form and the form can be touched 
and examined as if they were real. You can only summon the 
“flesh and blood” of the pieces of the body you have but they 
need not be connected as long as they are within 4m. 
Range: 4m 

Duration: 1 Hour 

Defense: None 


Rituals 


Storm of Souls 

Level: Master 

STA Cost: 22 

Effect: Storm of Souls was first seen during a Nazairi riot 
after Nilfgaardian invaders captured the local magic acad- 
emy and shipped its students to Gweison Haul. This highly 
volatile spell drags restless souls into the world to sow chaos. 
Immediately upon casting this spell, 1d6+4 wraiths are sum- 
moned. These shrieking wraiths are blinded by rage and will 
attack any target including the caster or their allies. 

Range: 10m 

Duration: 2d6 rounds 


Defense: None 


Over the years, several necromantic rituals have been compiled by enterprising necromancers. Oftentimes, those brilliant 
minds lead to their own destruction which has led to a great deal of knowledge being lost in ancient underground laboratories 
or locked away by Mage Hunters who happened onto the scene of a necromancer’s demise. Four necromantic rituals have 
been compiled here, taken from the notes of dead mages and the observations of Mage Hunters. 


Cadfan’s Synthesis 
Level: Master 
STA Cost: 16 


Effect: Cadfan’s Synthesis is a highly complex ritual created 
by the infamous necromancer Cadfan of Ebbing before his 
disappearance. The ritual partially animates a great number 
of corpses, binding them together into a single amalgam- 
ated creature that can move and act on your commands. The 
creature you create is a Corpse Amalgam. Like a golem, it 
will perform any task given by its creator to the letter but is 
no longer capable of higher thought. 

Preparation Time: 15 Rounds 

Difficulty Check: 22 

Duration: Permanent 

Components: 10 Corpses (from creatures killed within 
the last 24 hours), Chalk (x5), Tanning Herbs (x10), Lunar 
Shards (x1), Hellebore Petals (x2), Ducal Water (x3), Fifth 
Essence (x10), Candles (x10), Crow’s Eye (x5), Specter Dust 
(x5), Essence of Wraith (x5) 


Create Soul Beacon 

Level: Journeyman 

STA Cost: 10 

Effect: Create Soul Beacon uses bones to create a totem that 

enhances the abilities of a Necromancer within 6m. A soul 

beacon is a 1 meter tall totem topped with a skull. The Bea- 

con has 10 Hit Points. You can only benefit from one Soul 

Beacon at one time. The bonuses you gain are based on the 

skull used. 

¢ Human/Elderfolk: The DC of any necromancy ritual is 
lowered by 3. Additionally, the Stamina Cost required to 
perform any necromancy ritual is lowered by 3. Finally, if 
you fumble or overdraw while casting a necromancy ritual 
or spell, you roll 1d10-2 instead of 1d10 when rolling on 
the Restless Spirits table. 

¢ Beast/Monster: Any creature created by necromancy 
gains a +2 to Attack and Defense rolls. Additionally, the 
senses of a person in Hanmarvyn’s Blue Dream are height- 
ened, giving them Scent Tracking and Night Vision. 


Preparation Time: 10 Rounds 

Difficulty Check: 16 

Duration: 1 Day 

Components: A Skull (from a creature killed within the last 24 
hours), Ashes (x10), Fifth Essence (x2), Infused Dust (x3), Tim- 
ber (x5), Stone (x2), Leather (x3), Specter Dust (x2) 


Hanmarvyn’s Blue Dream 
Level: Master 
STA Cost: 16 


Effect: Hanmarvynss Blue Dream allows a single person to wit- 
ness the last moments of a corpse’s life. Upon casting the ritual, 
choose one person within 4m to receive the memories of the 
corpse. This person must make a DC:24 Endurance check to 
withstand the shock of the event. If they succeed, the effects of 
the ritual begin. If they fail, they are immediately put into Death 
State but the effects of the ritual still begin. For the duration of 
the ritual, the affected person falls unconscious and witnesses 
the last 10 minutes of the corpse’s life. They experience these 
memories as if they were their own, even feeling that person’s 
emotions. If under the influence of a Hallucinogen, the duration 
of this ritual increases to 20 minutes. 


Preparation Time: 10 Rounds 

Difficulty Check: 18 

Duration: 10 Minutes 

Components: A Corpse, Fifth Essence (x10), Lunar Shards (x2), 
Essence of Wraith (x3), Ginatia Petals (x2), Quicksilver Solution 
(x1), Green Mold (x2), Mandrake Root (x1), Phosphorus (x3), 
Specter Dust (x2) 


Reanimate Corpse 

Level: Journeyman 

STA Cost: 10 

Effect: Reanimate Corpse forcibly summons a soul and binds it 
within its dead body. While animated, the corpse acts as though 
it were alive but is in excruciating pain which prevents it from 
moving and imposes a -3 to Resist Coercion checks. However, 
for the corpse to answer any questions it must have all parts 
required to speak including lungs, vocal chords, and a mouth 
and tongue. Additionally, it’s brain must be at least 50% intact. 
For the purposes of Verbal Combat, Torture and Torment will 
not work on a corpse revived by necromancy as it is already in 
unimaginable pain. 

Preparation Time: 10 Rounds 

Difficulty Check: 18 

Duration: Active (3 STA per Minute) 

Components: A corpse (with working vocal cords, lungs, brain, 
and a mouth), Chalk (x4), Fifth Essence (x5), Candles (x5), 
Crow’s Eye (x2), Specter Dust (x5), Essence of Wraith (x2) 


Mutation isn’t a new development in the world of The 
Witcher. People have been attempting to improve people 
and create war-beasts for centuries. The most well-known 
case of mutation is of course the witchers, created by a group 
of renegade mages lead by Cosimo Malaspina and Alzur. But 
many people have attempted to harness the power of muta- 
tion throughout the ages including the Grand Master of 
the Flaming Rose, Jacques de Aldersberg. Very few of these 
attempts could be considered successful. 


The crux of mutation is that the process causes extreme 
stress on the subject's body. Most mutants die on the slab 
when their bodies reject the mutagenic compounds. This is 
why the vast majority of successful mutators are mages of 
some caliber. A mage can utilize magic to keep a subject's 
body stable and help them accept the mutagenic compounds. 


Advanced Mutation Experimentation is the process by 
which a Mage with at least 5 points in the Mutation ability 
can add desired Traits to a creature and/or make a Combi- 
nation of up to three creatures. The downside is, eventually, 


something is bound to go horribly wrong, and you'll end up 
having to terminate the experiment before it does the same 
to you or your colleagues. 


To attempt an Advanced Mutation Experiment you'll 
need to follow the following steps. First, you must decide 
what you aim to achieve with this experiment. There are 
two primary types of mutation you can perform: Combin- 
ing Monsters and Adding Traits. In the process of Com- 
bining Monsters (pg. 136) you'll take multiple monsters 
(or monsters and people) and try to merge their genomes 
together to form something new. This process is very 
dangerous, but it can have some terrifying results, merg- 
ing the strength of multiple monsters into one abomina- 
tion. When Adding Traits (pg. 137) your goal is to add 
one or more of the 11 listed traits to a monster or person. 
This process isn't quite as radical as combining monsters, 
but it can give an edge to a pet or a party member at the 
risk of mangling them permanently. When adding traits, 
you must choose all the traits you are planning to add toa 
creature before starting the experiment. If you are feeling 
very lucky or very skilled you can even attempt to com- 
bine monsters and then add traits to that new monster 


at the same time. This drastically raises the 
difficulty of the experiment, however. 


Once you know what you want to do, 
you'll need to gather all the ingredients. To 
attempt an Advanced Mutation Experiment, 
you'll need several hard to gather compo- 
nents. First off, you'll need the creatures you 
wish to experiment on, and they must be 
in good health. You'll also need to restrain 
them in some manner for the duration of the 
experiment. You don't want them thrashing 
around while you are trying to concentrate. 
For Combining Creatures, you'll also need 
one Red, Green, and Blue Mutagen, which 
attempting the experiment will consume. 
For Adding Traits, you'll need specific com- 
ponents depending on the trait(s) you want 
to add. See Adding Traits to build your list. 


With all the ingredients at hand the exper- 


imentation can begin. Similarly to the Mutate 
Ability, an Advanced Mutation Experiment 
always requires 1 full day of work and depletes 
all the operating mages Stamina points. At 
the end of this 24 hour period, the Mage must 
make a Mutate check at a DC determined by 
the complexity of the experiment. 


The more advanced your experiment, the 
higher the Mutation DC will be and the harder 
it will be to control with the Monster Lore skill. 
To determine the DC of your Advanced Muta- 
tion Experiment, look to the Advanced Muta- 
tion Experiment DC table and add up all the 
modifiers that pertain to your experiment. If 
you succeed in your experiment, you've created 
something new and must now consult Main- 
taining Control of your Experiment (pg. 136). 
If you fail, skip to Failing your Advanced Muta- 
tion Experiment (pg. 136). 


Advanced Mutation Experiment DC 


Mutagens 


Mutagenic compounds 
can be found in the vis- 
cera of monsters and are 
usually classified as fol- 
lows. Blue Mutagens af- 
fect the magical potency 
of a mutant, Green Muta- 
gens affect their physical 
hardiness, and Red Muta- 
gens affect their vicious- 
ness and natural defenses. 
Traditionally, compounds 
of mutagenic material are 
injected into the subject 
through tubes and nee- 
dles, combined with mag- 
ical catalysts and mitigat- 
ing spells. The process is 
invariably excruciatingly 
painful for the subject. 


Assuming your Experiment was a success and produced a 
creature of lower than Sapient Intelligence, you now have 
a brand new Experiment that will follow your orders with- 
out question for one day. After the end of that day, you, or 
another person whom you teach the secret of doing so, must 
reassert control over that experiment by rolling the Monster 
Lore Skill vs the DC of the most difficult Advanced Mutation 
Experiment that the creature has been subjected to. Success 
means reasserting control over the Experiment for another 
day. Letting the time run out or failing the check to reas- 
sert control will cause the Experiment briefly to go berserk. 


Afterward it will be unable to be controlled again in this 
manner for a week. 


If your experiment is of Sapient Intelligence, you are 
out of luck and you'll have to control your experiment the 
old fashioned way, with restraints, magic, drugs, wages, 
etc. 


Failing an Advanced Mutation Experiment is particularly 
messy. When you fail, you lose all your materials and must 
choose one of your subjects to save from death. The only 
caveat is that if you choose to save a subject of Sapient Intel- 
ligence, they are reduced to a creature of Feral Intelligence 
(their INT is reduced to one, but they still use their original 
Intelligence for Wilderness Survival and Awareness, which 
should be added to their Skill Bases for these skills). Addi- 
tionally, despite the experiment being a failure, the experi- 
ence will have warped their appearance, causing their Social 
Standing to become Hated and Feared. Don’t worry, you will 
be able to use them in future Advanced Mutation Experi- 
ments without any penalties. 


An Advanced Mutation Experiment may involve combin- 
ing two or three creatures into a single much more powerful 
creature. Doing so is simple, rules wise, but does require a 
tidy amount of paperwork. For components, you'll need a 
Red, Blue, and Green Mutagen, which attempting the exper- 
iment consumes, in addition to your chosen creatures. To 
combine multiple creatures, first choose which creature you 
wish to be the Base Creature for this Experiment. Write down 
its Stats, Skill Bases, Abilities, and Vulnerabilities. For each 
other creature in the experiment, swap 2 of the Stats from 
the Base Creature with Stats from their Stat Blocks. Update 
the Base Creature’s Skill Bases and Derived Skills to account 
for this change in Stats. Then, for each other creature in the 
experiment, add up to two Abilities from their Stat Blocks to 
the Base Creature, and as many of their Attacks to the Base 
Creature as you desire. You can't double up on abilities with 
the same name. Additionally, a creature with the Incorporeal 
ability loses it when it is combined with a creature without it. 
Finally, add all vulnerabilities from the other creatures in the 
experiment to the Base Creature. The finished Experiment is 
a Hybrid in addition to all the types of its component crea- 
tures. Any finished Experiment’s Social Standing automati- 
cally becomes Hated and Feared and is considered a Hard/ 
Complex Threat. 


Adding Traits 


Advanced Mutation Experiments can 
include modifying the Experiment 
with as many Traits as you have the 
skill and materials to add. Each of the 
following traits can only be added once 
to a creature, unless mentioned other- 
wise. For each Trait you wish to add 
to your experiment, specific materials 
must be gathered, which attempting 
the experiment will consume. 


Amphibious Adaptation 


Components: Blue Mutagen, Siren 
Vocal Chords (x2), Drowner Brain (x1) 
By merging the Experiment’s genome 
with a blend of aquatic monsters, 
you adapting it to live on land as well 
as water. The Experiment gains the 
Amphibious ability, meaning it can live 
underwater indefinitely and cannot be 
drowned, in addition to not taking pen- 
alties for acting underwater. Addition- 
ally, the Experiment can now breathe 
air and loses any Vulnerability that 
would penalize the creature for being 
on land, such as the Limited Movement 
Vulnerability. 


Armored Adaptation 


Components: Green Mutagens (x3), 
Arachas Chitin (x3), Draconid Scales 
(x3) 

You harden the surface of the Exper- 
iment by injecting a slurry of green 
mutagen and chitinous material. The 
Experiment gains Resistance to pierc- 
ing and slashing damage and loses any 
Vulnerability it had to piercing and 
slashing damage, in addition to losing 
the Soft Spot Vulnerability if it had it. 


Engineer Immunity 


Components: Green Mutagen, Endrega 
Saliva (x10), Arachas Venom (x3) 


By infusing the blood of the Experi- 
ment with a mutagenic mixture, the 
Experiment becomes immune to poi- 
son and disease. 


Engineer Regenerative 


Capacity 

Components: Green Mutagen (x2), 
Troll Liver, Werewolf Saliva (x3), 
Endrega Embryo (x2) 


Enhances the Experiment’s tissue 
by bonding it with green mutagen 
and a blend of regenerative subject’s 
genomes. The Experiment gains the 
Regeneration ability allowing it to heal 
5 Hit Points per turn. 


Enlarge Appendage 
Components: Red Mutagens (x3) 


Pick one of the Experiment’s natural 
weapons to augment with a danger- 
ous amount of red mutagen causing it 
to grow wildly. Increase that weapon's 
damage by 1d6 and double its Reliabil- 
ity. Additionally, increase the Experi- 
ment’s Hit Points by 10. This Trait can 
be applied multiple times, but each 
time, a new natural weapon must be 
selected. 


Graft Additional Head 


Components: Blue Mutagen, Green 
Mutagen, Red Mutagen, Preserved 
Head 


By injecting a slurry of mutagens 
and material from the brain of a pre- 
served head into the Experiment’s 
spinal cord, you force the Experiment 
to grow a vestigial head. The grown 
head grants the Experiment all of its 
Natural Weapons (like Bite, Horns, 
Gore, etc.), Abilities (like Spit Venom, 
Sonic Screech, or Night Vision), and 
Vulnerabilities which are localized on, 
related to, or produced from the head. 
The brain of the newly attached head 
is no longer functional, and the main 
head’s brain is still in control of its 
new head. To be used as a component 
for this Trait, the preserved head must 
be within a year of its initial preserva- 
tion date. 


Graft Additional Limb 


Components: Red Mutagen, Green 
Mutagen, Preserved Limb 


By grafting bone and muscle from a 
preserved limb into the Experiment’s 
body and injecting a cocktail of muta- 
gens, you force the Experiment to grow 
a similar limb. The grown limb grants 
the Experiment all of its Natural Weap- 
ons (like Punch, Claw, or Tail Barbs), 
Abilities or Effects (like Crushing 
Force), and Vulnerabilities which are 
localized on, related to, or produced 
from the added limb. To be used as a 
component for this Trait, the preserved 
limb must be within a year of its initial 
preservation date. 


Graft Wings 


Components: Blue Mutagen, Green 
Mutagen, Preserved Wings 


By grafting bone and muscle from a 
preserved pair of wings into the Exper- 
iment’s body and injecting a cocktail of 
mutagens, you force the Experiment to 
grow a pair of wings. The Experiment 
gains the Flight Ability allowing it to 
take flight as a movement. The Exper- 
iment can only be knocked out of the 
air by stunning it or doing more than 
10 points of damage with an attack. If 
the Experiment is knocked out of the 
air it must make a DC:16 Athletics 
check or take ramming damage equal 
to how many meters it fell. 


Improve Natural Weapons 


Components: Red Mutagen, Vampire 
Teeth (x4), Griffin Egg 


Making use of a red mutagen, a foul 
smelling mixture is injected into the 
Experiment, causing their natural 
weapons to harden and sharpen. Each 
of the Experiment’s natural weapons 
gain the Balanced effect. 


Components: Blue Mutagen, Triglav Rune 


If your finished Experiment would have been 
of Sapient Intelligence, they are reduced to a 
creature of Feral Intelligence, meaning their 
INT is reduced to one, but they still use their 
original Intelligence for Wilderness Survival 
and Awareness, which should be added to 
their Skill Bases for these skills. The Triglav 
Rune used as a component is not destroyed in 
the experiment but embedded into the crea- 
ture on the surface of its brain. Theoretically, 
it could be removed with a DC:24 Healing 
Hands check, which would remove this Trait, 
and revert the creature to their previous intel- 
ligence. 


Components: Red Mutagens (x3), Fiend’s Eye 
By infusing the Experiment’s body with red 
mutagen and fiend genome you cause it to 
grow and thicken, increasing its Hit Points by 
30. Additionally, the Experiment is immune to 
Aard, or any effects that would knock them off 
their feet. An Experiment with this Trait loses 
the ability to benefit from the Flight ability. 


“T have never attempted mutation and I doubt that I ever will. The prospect 
of forceably twisting the body of another creature through torturous oe 
experimentation is repulsive to me. Though I have no doubt that if a relia - 
form of human mutation was discovered in the time of the Usurpator I wou 


have been forced to mutate slaves by the hundreds.” 
—Glynnis var Treharne 


Goetia is by the far the most dangerous form of magic in the 
world of The Witcher. In part, this is because it tampers with 
forces beyond the understanding of even the most learned 
sages. While certain demons have been classified such as hyms, 
barghest, mari lwyd and the like, their origin, home, and orga- 
nizational structure is still largely a mystery. Many religions 
believe they have all the facts when it comes to demonology 
but the demons aren't very interested in discussing themselves 
to confirm anyone’ theories. Those who tamper in demon- 
ology are often found mutilated by the forces they sought to 
understand, and many are never seen again. 


Unlike wielding the powers of the elements, mutating 
monsters, and raising the dead, goetia requires no special 
ability or great amount of knowledge to perform. A child 
without a day of schooling or an ounce of magical experi- 
ence could feasibly summon a demon if they stumbled upon 
the wrong book and had enough hatred or desire festering 
inside them. Some might say this is because unlike the genie 


of the elemental planes, demons want to be summoned. 
Invariably, the summoning of a demon causes great chaos, 
and is ultimately only beneficial for the demon. A demon 
that senses a summons from another realm will often choose 
to accept the summons knowing it can outwit or overpower 
a foolish mortal into giving it exactly what it wants. 


Despite the danger, people continue to study goetia and 
demonologists continue to summon demons. Such is the 
arrogance, desperation, and short-sightedness of mortals. 
Much in the same way as genie, demons are capable of call- 
ing on tremendous magical power to grant wishes and pro- 
vide boons. Piles of gold coins, secret tomes that had been 
lost for centuries, strength and speed unrivaled by any mor- 
tal beast. These are just a few of the treasures that demons 
can offer to those who summon them. More often then not, 
the demon will deliver on these promises but just like with a 
genie, there is always a price.... Often the gift you receive is 
not nearly worth the price you have to pay. 


Unfortunately, since Goe- 
tia was outlawed by the 
conclave of mages, all 
information pertaining 
to safely practicing goe- 
tia has become terrify- 
ingly rare; sold only in 
black markets and kept 
in the private collections 
of high ranking mages. 
Most practitioners are 
only able to find snippets 
of lore and instructions 
that are only a fraction 
of the full picture. 


Anyone with enough desire in their heart can 
summon a demon (see Uncontrolled Sum- 
moning on pg.142). This summoning process 
is extremely simple but just as dangerous. Most 
summoners who take this path are killed or 
worse before ever benefiting from it. A true 
goetic practitioner knows that many steps are 
required to safely summon a demon and skip- 
ping any of them would be disastrous. Before 
attempting a Controlled Summoning you'll 
want to know who and what you're summon- 
ing. To do this you'll need to perform a Ritual 
of Naming which will teach you the name of 
a demon. To further mitigate the dangers of 
goetia, you'll need a few tools. A goetic prac- 


titioner should never be without a Bloodstone 
Dagger. This dagger can be used in a grisly 
ritual to create a Goatskin Mantle which pro- 
tects its wearer from the immediate wrath of 
any demon they summon. Experienced prac- 
titioners can even create unique defenses that 
make controlling specific demons easier and 
safer. 


Once you have successfully summoned a 
demon, things get a bit more complicated. The 
demon you have summoned is under no obli- 
gation to remain, but will always be interested 
in making a deal with you. Each demon has 
a specific deal that it likes to make and will 
begin by offering it to you. Demons are largely 
single-minded creatures and will not accept 
other offers unless they are along the same 
lines as their favored deal. If both you and the 
demon accept the deal proposed you can stand 
to benefit (See The Benefits of Goetia Table 
on pg.141). However, similarly to a genie, a 
demon will always twist the words of any deal 
made to benefit themselves or simply for their 
own twisted enjoyment. This is where binding 
comes in. 


Demons will not accept deals that are not 
beneficial to them unless they are bound using 
the Ritual of Binding which few goetic practi- 
tioners are ever able to learn. This is a highly 
complex, tremendously dangerous process 
which requires the practitioner to assemble a 
magical artifact known as a Staff of Binding. 
When combined with the Ritual of Binding, 
the staff allows the wielder to trap a demon 
within a magical barrier and force them into 
subservience. Successfully completing this rit- 
ual places the practitioner into a tenuous rela- 
tionship with the demon where they can call 
upon the demon’s power without having to 
give anything up. Any bound demon will be 
constantly looking to escape this relationship 
and exact revenge on the person who bound 
them. Should the demon ever get loose, your 
best bet is to find a witcher. 


The Benefits of Goetia 


A bes will offer to grant 
you great physical power 
by possessing your body. 
You may specify a single 
target that it will track 
down and kill using your 
body. However, the bes will 
attack and kill anything 
that gets in the way. 


Once you have bound a 
bes, you can trap it within 
your body. This increases 

Borin your Reflex & Dexterity 

Statistics to 12 and gives 

you its Boiling Blood 

Ability. This remains as 

long as the bes is bound. 


A greater bes will offer to 
grant you great physical 
power by possessing your 
body. You may specify a 
single target that it will 
track down and kill using 
your body. However, 
the greater bes will 
attack and kill anything 
that gets in the way. 


Unbound 


Greater 
Unbound 


Greater 
Bound 


Once you have bound a 
greater bes, you can trap 
it within your body. This 
increases your Reflex 
& Dexterity Statistics 
to 14 and gives you its 
Boiling Blood Ability. 
This remains as long as 
the greater bes is bound. 


A casglydd will offer 
to trade you any one 
piece of knowledge it 
has collected for an item 
of its choosing. Upon 
delivering the item, you 
immediately learn the 
knowledge promised. 


Once you have bound 
a casglydd, you can 
talk with it through 

shadows and ask it any 

question that a mortal 
once knew the answer 
to. The casglydd will 
find the answer for 
you within 1 week. 


A greater casglydd will 
offer to trade you any one 
piece of knowledge it has 
collected from this realm 


or beyond for an item of its 


choosing. Upon delivering 
the item, you immediately 
learn the knowledge 
promised. This can allow 
you to learn spells and 
other magic including 
magic unavailable to 
your Profession. 


Once you have bound 
a greater casglydd, you 
can talk with it through 
shadows and ask it any 
question which can be 
answered by beings of 
this realm or others. The 
greater casglydd will find 
the answer for you within 
1 week. This can allow 
you to learn spells and 
other magic including 
magic unavailable to 
your Profession. 


A mari lwyd will offer 
you any combination of 
items equaling no more 

than 3,000 crowns in 

value. The mari lwyd will 
return for something 
of a similar value in the 
not so distant future. 


Once you have bound 
a mari lwyd you can 
summon it and demand 
an item of at most 
3,000 crowns in value. 
The mari lwyd will 
begrudgingly retrieve 
the item for you within 
1 week and cannot seek 
repayment while bound. 


A greater mari lwyd will 
offer you any combination 
of items equaling no 
more than 30,000 crowns 
in value. The mari lwyd 
will return for something 
of a similar value in the 
not so distant future. 


Once you have bound a 
greater mari lwyd you can 
summon it and demand 
an item of at most 30,000 
crowns in value. The 
greater mari lwyd will 
begrudgingly retrieve 
the item for you within 
1 week and cannot seek 
repayment while bound. 


What Demons 
Want 


To successfully convince 
a demon to take a differ- 
ent deal your proposition 
must fall in line with the 
demon’s desires. Bes are 
violent sadists who enjoy 
causing pain and suffer- 
ing. Casglydd are obses- 
sive hoarders that collect 
rare objects. Mari Lwyd 
are greedy creatures that 
want to be lavished with 
attention and gifts. 


Greater Demons 


Not all demons are cre- 
ated equal. There exist 
greater demons whose 
powers are wildly expan- 
sive but whose desires 
are equally as twisted. 
These greater demons 
will sometimes accept 
the call of an uncon- 
trolled summoning and 
use the hapless practi- 
tioner to further their 
own goals. 


Chanting 
at the Table 


For added effect, we rec- 
ommend chanting at the 
gaming table. Just don't 
turn off the lights... 


Elderfolk & 
Goetia 


Humans are _ usually 
considered the most 
likely race to attempt 
goetia. Their short life 
spans and grand ambi- 
tions have a tendency 
to make them impatient 
and much more willing 
to risk death and dam- 
nation to achieve their 
goals. By contrast, most 
of the elder races are 
blessed with extremely 
long lives and are more 
willing to take the long 
road to success than take 
a short cut by invok- 
ing demons. That being 
said, many members of 
the elderfolk have found 
themselves in desperate 
straights after the hu- 
mans dominated most of 
the Continent. There are 
elderfolk so consumed 
by rage, fear, or desper- 
ation that they will make 
pacts with the unknown 
in hopes of gaining back 
some power. Even at the 
risk of losing their own 
lives or destroying those 
around them. 


Rituals of Goetia 


In the practice of Goetia there are 4 rituals that 
form the foundation of demon summoning. 
Each one builds on the others. One should be 
very careful to know all of the rituals before 
attempting any of them. That being said, due to 
the taboo nature of Goetia, the information for 
each of these rituals is usually spread across the 
Continent. Rarely will you find instructions on 
more than one ritual in the same place. Often 
you will have to make sacrifices. 


Novice Goetic Rituals 


Uncontrolled Summoning 
STA Cost: 0 


Process: Designate a chief summoner, to lead 
the chant. Have them stand forward, with the 
rest of your group behind them in a semicir- 
cle. Scribe a chalk circle into the ground before 
you, to guide the demon to your ritual. Pick 
three syllables from your heart (the Demon 
True Name Generator on Pg.143) at random, 
and chant them while visualizing your heart's 
desire, one syllable at a time, without ceasing, 
until a demon appears to you. 


Effect: This summoning ritual is incredibly 
dangerous. The demon that is summoned is 
not bound by any sort of code of conduct, and 
is not controlled by the players. It may attack 
them, or go back on any deal made with them, 
with no consequences. Furthermore, a demon 
of any species may show up in the summon- 
ing, including greater demons. This ritual is 
responsible for most of the deaths associated 
with goetia. 

Preparation Time: 10 Rounds 

Difficulty Check: 10 

Duration: Instant 

Components: Chalk x1 


Investment: 2 


Journeyman Goetic Rituals 


“Gods, my knees ache from the 
stones, but the circle is drawn, 
neat and precise as the paper 
showed, The pieces are in place, 
now all that’s left is to summon 
it, Tonight. 1 will meet you there, 


at the place we chose.” 
_From a letter found ina home 


ransacked by the Order of the 
Flaming Rose. 


Controlled Summoning 


STA Cost: 0 


Process: In a bowl of oil, add infused dust and 
essence of wraith, mixing them into a thick 
paste. Spread this paste into a circle, and place 
equally spread outside of that circle five unlit 
candles. Add to the circle an item beloved by 
the species of demon you wish to summon. 
To summon a bes, have everyone participat- 
ing in the ritual add an offering of their flesh, 
freshly cut. If enough flesh is offered, a greater 
bes may be summoned. To summon a mari 
lywd, fill the circle with fresh food and ale, or 
to attract a greater mari lywd, prepare a feast 
(100 crowns). To summon a casglydd, place 
into the circle a letter of introduction, prom- 
ising it a relationship of mutual benefit. To 
attract a greater casglydd, over-promise in this 
letter. Chant the name of a demon five times. If 
you know the true name of a demon, chanting 
it here will force it to be summoned. Other- 
wise, pick three syllables from your heart (the 
Demon True Name Generator on Pg.143), 
which will attract a demon, because it sounds 
like a demon’s true name. After each repeti- 
tion, one candle should light itself. When all 
five are lit, the demon will appear. 


Effect: This summoning ritual allows the players to choose 
which species of demon they wish to summon, and whether 
or not they wish to summon a more powerful one. Without 
protections in place, like a Goatskin Mantle, or protections 
specific to the demon being summoned, the ritual is still 
incredibly dangerous, and often deadly. 


Preparation Time: 15 Rounds 
Difficulty Check: 16 
Duration: Instant 


Components: Candle (x5), Essence of Wraith (x2), Infused 
Dust (x3), Oil (x2) 


Investment: 639 


Ritual of Naming 
STA Cost: 0 


Process: Create a bonfire of beast bones, coal, and dry wood. 
This fire must be hot enough to burn bright orange. Rub a 
mixture of coal, fifth essence, and your own blood onto your 
exposed skin to protect it. While holding a branch of hazel, 
submerge the treated skin into the fire. The fire will be harm- 
less to you, and should burn white hot for a while before 
going out. While the fire burns hot, think of a demon whose 
true name you wish to discover. When the fire expires, 
remove your skin from the fire. The true name of the demon 
should appear in the crust of the coal coating your skin. 

Effect: This ritual allows the player to learn the true name 
of a specific demon. Once removed from the fire, the name 
can be safely recorded to save for later. If you fail the Rit- 


ual Crafting check, then upon removing your skin from the 
fire, you find the coal had burned off during the ritual and 
the true name of a demon has been burned into your skin, 
marking you with a Lucifuge. You may have discovered the 
true name of a demon, but it will forever know where you are 
while you bear this mark, and may appear to you on it’s own 
terms, as it wishes. 


Preparation Time: 20 Rounds 
Difficulty Check:18 (DC: 24 for Greater Demons) 
Duration: Instant 


Components: Coal (x10), Hardened Timber (x20), Beast 
Bones (x10), Infused Dust (x3), Your Own Blood 


Investment: 848 


aa 


Ca 


“ agi have it! The name. The name is 
e wag It holds power, as our ancestors 
~ before us believed. I can summon 
it. Yea, aen ys. I can summon it and 
make things right again. Bleddyn, 
essea squaess. Aé minne taedh, elaine 
hina grasped in the hand of a dead 
elf in a cave near the Blue Mountains. 


DEMON TRUE NAME GENERATOR 
Roll for the first two = then pick the final syllable that you think feels correct. 


Master Goetic Rituals 


Ritual of Binding 
STA Cost: 0 


Process: Prepare as you would for a ritual of Controlled 
Summoning, by making a circle of candles and infused 
paste. Make a second paste of coal and your own blood and 
write the true name of a demon just outside of the circle of 
controlled summoning. Line the inside of circle with silver, 
which will create a protective barrier within the circle, trap- 
ping the demon inside and leaving it helpless to resist you. 
Within the silver, present an offering to the demon as you 
would in a ritual of Controlled Summoning. Once you are 
prepared, chant the true name of a demon until it appears 
within the circle, helpless to resist you. Torture the demon 
with the forked end of the Staff of Binding, until it accepts to 
be bound to you, granting you benefits beyond your wildest 
dreams. 


Effect: You must know the name of the demon you are 
planning to bind before you begin this ritual. Upon casting 
the Ritual, the demon you named is summoned within the 
ritual circle and is trapped in a magical cage that renders it 
unable to escape or attack you for the duration of the Rit- 
ual. The demon is aware that the ritual has a finite duration 
but perceives time as passing more slowly. Once this ritual 
has been cast, you enter Verbal Combat with the demon 


F / haven't much time. The bastard got at 
me with its teeth — @ lucky shot. Denn 
an Rari are dead. | managed to ga 
away, but | pear |"ve only prolonged the 
nut have messed. it up somehow. Spelled 
the name wrong? Stupid woman. Now 
we've all paid the price for u. 
—From a bloodstained letieh on & 


with your end goal being the Binding of the demon. A True 
Staff of Binding can be used to make attacks through the 
magical cage and torment the demon but other weaponry 
and spells cannot penetrate this barrier. A regular Staff of 
Binding will not penetrate this barrier either. The demon is 
bound to any agreements made while the Ritual of Binding 
is in effect and cannot go back on these agreements unless 
the binding is broken. Once, every 2 weeks the demon can 
attempt a Resist Magic check against the Binding Charac- 
ter’s original Ritual Crafting check to attempt to break the 
Binding. This roll is made secretly by the Game Master. If 
the demon breaks the Binding they are no longer beholden 
to any agreements made earlier and are capable of harm- 
ing the Binder but may not do so until the moment is 
right. Unless broken, the binding last indefinitely. During 
the duration of the Binding, the Binder can summon the 
bound demon at any time without performing the Con- 
trolled Summoning Ritual. 


Preparation Time: 30 Rounds 
Difficulty Check: 20 (DC: 27 for Greater Demons) 
Duration: 24 Hours 


Components: Candle (x5), Essence of Wraith (x2), Infused 
Dust (x3), Oil (x1), Coal (x10), Silver (x6), A Jug of Your 
Own Blood, True Staff of Binding 


Investment: 1288 


Tools of Goetia 


Even if you know the rituals to summon a demon, you should 
still invest in some tools that will help you even the playing 
field between the demon and yourself. Without any of the 
following items, you are more or less at the mercy of what- 
ever malevolent being you managed to summon from the 
beyond. While the process of acquiring these items can be 
stomach churning, they are a necessity for safe summoning. 


WA Avail. 


To 


DMG | Rel | Hands | RNG | 
Bloodstone | PorS +0 2d6 5 1 N/A 
Dagger 


Bloodstone Dagger Diagram 


Bloodstone Dagger 


A long steel dagger with a flamberge blade inscribed with 
ancient runes. The most impressive and distinctive aspect 
of this dagger is a polished bloodstone set into its handle. 
Bloodstone daggers are carried by cultists of many creeds, 
but the original bloodstone daggers were created as tools for 
goetic practitioners. Now a days they are difficult to find and 
it’s rare to find someone crafting them thanks to their omi- 
nous reputation. 


EN | Wei 
1 


Bleed S 
(25%) 


Ashes (x2), Beast Bones (x1), Darkening Oil (x1), Etching 254 500 
Acid (x4), Sharpening Grit (x2), Steel (x1), Gemstone (x1) 


Tossed carelessly into a 
dagger was buried under a moun 


pile of farriers’ tools and tarnished blades, the 
d of scrap — the stall owner clearly unaware 


of what he had stumbled upon, The bloodstone is, thankfully, still We 
though the blade itself could use a whetstone before 1 set it to the task. 7 
_Found in the diary of a Coram Agh Tera cultist. 


Goat Skin Mantle 


This happens before anyone can take an action. 


moner'’s offering. 


A treated goat skin mantle that hangs around the shoulders and clasps at the front with bone Rare 0S 
toggles. Goat Skin Mantles have several unique effects when summoning various forms of 

demons and are used as a first line of defense by goetic practitioners. The only person who 

benefits from the effects of a Goat Skin Mantle is the person wearing it. 

Bes: Unless the summoner is wearing a Goat Skin Mantle, the bes will immediately try to pos- 

sess them upon its summoning. This happens before anyone can take an action. 

Casglydd: Unless the summoner is wearing a Goat Skin Mantle, the casglydd will immediately 

try to use its Claw attack to drag them into the shadows where it will negotiate on its terms. 

Mari Lwyd: Unless the summoner is wearing a Goat Skin Mantle, the mari lwyd will assume 

that everything present in the building where the summoning takes place is part of the sum- 


Ritual of the Goat Skin 


STA Cost: 0 

Process: The Ritual of the Goat Skin is a complex ritual used to create 
a Goat Skin Mantle which protects goetic practitioners during their 
rituals. During this ritual, the practitioner, who must have abstained 
from all pleasures of the flesh and fasted for a fortnight beforehand, 
must anoint a goat with oil infused with ginatia and hellebore pet- 
als and place a wreath of verbena and silk on its head. As the ritual 
begins, the practitioner must kill the goat, skin its body, and cast the 
body into a burning bonfire of timber and animal bones.. While the 
goat burns the practitioner must recite an unbroken series of protec- 
tive prayers. When the fire burns down, the practitioner must take 
the ashes of the bonfire and rub it into the pelt of the goat and then 
tan it and attach toggles made from the goat’s bones. 

Effect: You create a single Goat Skin Mantle. 

Preparation Time: 30 Rounds 

Difficulty Check: 16 

Duration: Permanent 

Components: Goat (x1), Oil (x5), Coal (x1), Bloodstone Dagger, 
Ginitia Petals (x2), Hellebore Petals (x3), Tanning Herbs (x3), 
Verbena (x4), Timber (x10), Beast Bones (x3), Silk (x1) 


Investment: 400 


Earthly Ribbons 


A length of beautiful silk ribbon, 
embroidered with runes made from 
thread infused with fifth essence. When 
a goetic practitioner summons a mari 
lwyd they can present these ribbons 
among the gifts to the demon. The mari 
lwyd will happily accept the gorgeous 
gift and allow the practitioner to tie 0.1 
the ribbons around them. Once bound ; 
by Earthly Ribbons a mari lwyd is 
incapable of taking other forms. Once 
tied, the Earthly Ribbons remain active 
for 1 year. After this year, the ribbons 
lose their magic. Before that year ends 
however, the ribbons can be removed 
by anyone other than the mari lwyd. 


Earthly Ribbons Diagram 


Ghadowy claws 
when they realised what they were 
tucking. Tor all the stench of goat the 
wrelehed creatures shin had served well, 
as L wore the mantle. [o delight: it 
shricked and wri in the shadows, 
enraged but Umpoieni: Lt was L who 
“found amongst the scattrred notes ofan 
‘alchemist. 


ar He 

ribbons we presented delighted the 
demon, letting us string them about 
each pronged bone on its long neck, 
Canting its skull side to side, the 
stupid beast couldn’t comprehend it 
was had, The fabrics we adorned it 
with were the very chains with which 
we would bind it.” 


—Found in the notes of a Scoia’tael 
mage, 


Sk G8), Sth Execs), Thread 610) 8 


Cerebral Elixir 


Poppy 


An elixir composed of hallucinogen pee Qwled; fighting me every fe 
infused with mandrake root, - theway but I could scarcely blame 
hellebore petals, crow’s eye, 
wolfsbane, and feline brain her - what cat would want ity brainy 
matter macerated in alcohest. 
The concoction must be filtered smashed out of ity skull? I buried her 
through han fiber and mixed with 
silver shavings. The elixir must nore 01 by the crow’s eye planty by the door for 
be consumed at the beginning some dignity, at least: But what’y done 
of the summoning ritual. The 
Elixir lasts for 24 hours and while ix done, the elixir ix complete. The bey 
under its effects if you cannot be 
possessed by a bes. If you manage cont touch me now. 
to drink this Elixir while possessed ; : , 
by a bes, the bes is immediately ‘ Found iv w pellar’s hut in Verden. 
forced out of your body. f 


Cerebral Elixir Diagram 


Master 22 10 Hours Alcohest (x3), Feline Brain (x1), Hallucinogen (x1), 1332 
Hellebore Petals (x3), Mandrake Root (x5), Crow’s 
Eye (X3) Wolfsbane (x4), Silver (x1), Han Fiber (x4) 


Centerpiece 


A 


An entirely unique item crafted for the Relic | N/A Mabptcaten vafe o fcugian oi 
purposes of protecting a person from a 
casglydd. This item can take many forms and stidting panels, the creation on the table 
you will never see the same item more than an 
once. This item must be crafted by a skilled SCs Vey Ona that of Veh Alm Stile 
artisan and must be incredibly complex. ee AP 
This complexity can come in the form of Coan tsmanship . tt Bun other W oh lal Uy, 
intricate carvings or embroidery, strange andl y of L hur the man of commesstoned 
shapes and angles, puzzle elements, hidden 
compartments, or the like. This item must be tt from Was all too Mauulen. The htdidlen 
wrapped up and presented to the casglydd 
when they are summoned. Upon giving the 
Centerpiece to the casglydd the demon shifts 
its fascination from you to the Centerpiece. 
The casglydd will not attach to you and os oy , 
reoccur even if you sign a contract with it. i 0m the aay a nobleonan ik 


 compaptments aje thled with tiinkels — 
| offerings. The casplivdd wil be delighted. 


: Exenfurt. 


A Centerpiece Diagram 


Master Pw, 10 Hours To create a Centerpiece, you must use the Fine 700 N/A 
Arts skill to create an entirely unique item of 
great complexity. The Centerpiece must include 
at least 3 different materials and the total 
investment cost must be at least 700 Crowns. Each 
summoning must have a different Centerpiece. 


Wand of Banishment 


A hazel wand with a capped by etched “It Works. My 
dark steel and treated with ogre wax 
and ester grease. This wand can be 
used to temporarily banish a specific but it works. Melitele’s tits, to think this sticle 
demon from existence. The wielder 
must make a melee weapon attack was enough to stop it. It crumbled to ash at the 
against the demon which if successful 
deals no damage but banishes the 
demon back to its own realm for i the atr. Banished to whatever dare pit it crawleal 


24 hours. Each wand can only be 
used on one specific demon (whose out of. | should record my findings, but first... 


hands are shaking and I'm lucky to be alive, 


slightest touch, gone but for a foul stench in 


name is carved into the wand) and | need a drink.” 
has a 50% chance of breaking with 
each banishment. If used against Found tw Q journal of a dead mage. 
a greater demon, the wand always 
breaks after the banishment. 


Wand of Banishment Diagram 


Journeyman 17 9 Hours Timber (x1), Fifth Essence (x2), Ester Grease 405 800 
(x2), Dark Steel (x2), Etching Acid (x5), 
Ogre Wax (x3), Optima Matter (x1) 


Staff of Binding 


A sturdy staff of hazel, treated with ester grease, ogre wax, and drake oil, inset with a carved bloodstone. This staff is an 
incomplete Staff of Binding but still functions as a powerful focus. 


[sone [oe [va Tau oc na Ts Be 


Staff of +0 2d6 Se set _ Focus (3), 
Binding Greater Focus 


ee ee 


Staff of Binding Diagram 


Master 1 12 Hours | Timber (x4), Fifth Essence (x5), Ashes (x1), Ester Grease 1332 
(x1) Drake Oil (x3), Ogre Wax (x5), Gemstone (x1) 


‘And they say it can’t be tamed. Well, this’ show them otherwise. I Rnow its name and wrote it on 
the staff good and proper, no mistakes at all and I double-checked it twice to be sure! The blasted 
thing won't get away this time, not until I say it can.” 


—Found on a dismembered and frozen torso. 


True Staff of Binding 


A sturdy staff of hazel, treated with ester grease, ogre wax, and drake oil, inset with a carved bloodstone. This True Staff of 
Binding is complete and has the finishing touches: a pair of meteorite brass caps on either end of the staff, inlaid with runes 
and treated with optima matter. This Staff of Binding still functions as a powerful focus but additionally can be utilized in the 


Ritual of Binding. 


True Staff +0 R 2d6 5 2 N/A Long Reach N/A 1 Zz 
of Binding Focus (3) 
Greater Focus 


True Staff of Binding Diagram 


Difficulty | Crafting DC Components 


Grand Master 25 13 Hours | Staff of Binding, Meteorite (x3), Optima Matter (x2) 1160 2320 
OR 
Hazel Timber (x4), Fifth Essence (x5), Ashes (x1), 
Ester Grease (x1) Drake Oil (x3), Ogre Wax (x5), 
Gemstone (x1), Meteorite (x3), Optima Matter (x2) 


“After “aes tis my wand of banishment my opportunity has come. The final pieces of 
my staff of binding are affixed. Today I set right what once went wrong. Restaltos took my 
arm and nearly my life byt I will take from it everything.” 


Found in the catacombs beneath Cintra 


Good evening Glynnis, allow me to express my deep condolences. It 
must be terrible to have lost a father under such terrible circum- 
stances. I can only regret that he brought his demise upon himself by 
the practice of goetia. 


I hope you can understand that we need to go over just a few 
points in your statement. Yes, I know, I know you’ve spoken to my 
subordinates. And your statement was... atmospheric. Still, facts are 
facts and once we've cleared them up, then you will be free to leave. 
No, not yet. Soon. 

Your statement says your father was training you in the cellar 
rooms of your shop; quite extensive cellars. Part storeroom, part lab- 
oratory, how convenient. Just you and your father alone. Very well, 
so, after your lesson, your father and you had a disagreement. You 
were asking after your mother, one Catrin var Treharne, is that true? 
Your father became angry at you over the conversation and left the 
cellar. Tell me, why did he expect you to stay there? Ah, to tidy his 
trappings. But then you stayed for... oh, a period of private study in 
the darkened corner of a dark room. 

A more suspicious man might ask what you were studying but 
let us proceed. 

You say after some time your father returned, locked the cellar 
door, and began laying out ritual elements. Were you familiar with 
this? No, no, you say you've never seen such things before. So, a circle 
of candles, a bowl of—did you see him place his own blood into the 
vessel? I understand. It’s just difficult to rely upon the impressions of 
a scared child. 

After the blood—child, there’s no need to pale. Evil sorcery has its 
price, and it is rarely tidy. So, the blood, and then a small portrait. 
Did you happen to see the subject? Your mother? He must have truly 
hated her for leaving, but still. It seems a little extreme to have sum- 
moned—but I'm getting ahead of myself. 

Your father placed the portrait in the center of the candle circle 
then doused all the other lanterns in the work area? That seems fool- 
ish, but I don’t feel you are describing a man in full possession of his 
good sense. 

Tell me, where were you watching from and why did you not stop 
him? Surely the chanting was a sign all was not well? Now is this next 
part, right? He cut some of his own flesh into the bowl. Well, I sup- 
pose that shows what we're dealing with. Your father intentionally 
summoned a bes, a demon of cruelty and vengeance. You told my 
officer that a grim shape appeared in the circle. I think you're indulg- 
ing your poetic tendencies here, my dear. I’m reasonably sure flowing 
like dark oil is not an accurate depiction, but you were under a lot 
of stress and one can hardly expect clarity under such circumstances. 

You say it coated and entered your father. So, his... Oh, his eyes 
took flame. And you say they were red? Reddish-purple, that was 
it. Yes, yes, with black smoke. Dramatic. I'm sure it was terrifying. 
Anybody would probably have made some kind of utterance. As it 
happens, I'm rather impressed you merely gasped. Yes, I imagine that 
would draw his attention. Their attention. Its attention. 

So, this possession, as you call it. Your father—sorry—the pos- 
sessed body of your father spoke to you. And you say it threatened 
you? I find it incomprehensible that a father would say such things 
towards his own child, even under demonic influence. Well, perhaps 
you can explain to me how you yourself are still alive. And intact. 


And that your soul is your own? 

You concealed yourself behind a wooden support? I suppose you 
ARE somewhat waif-like, so that’s plausible, you seem to take after 
your mother’ side of the family. Aside from promising to skin you 
alive and make you eat it, what else did it say? Bear in mind demons 
are never to be trusted, but Iam curious as to why you are so coy on 
this point. 

There you were, a vulnerable young girl, flitting from shadow to 
shadow, that big, bad demon stalking you. It must have said some- 
thing. Bes are like cats, if you don't keep their interest, they simply 
pull your head off and leave your corpse on the doorstep. 

Oh, it offered you a chance to escape? That was sporting. But you 
didn't take it up on the offer? Ah, it had the key around your father’s 
neck, Well, that would assuredly make it difficult to open the door. If 
only you had been more skilled, you might simply have burned your 
way through. 

And what were you doing while this offer was being made? Pre- 
paring a spell was very resourceful, I hope it was a powerful one. 
Dormyn’s Chamber? That’s advanced for such an immature prac- 
titioner. Now if I remember right the working “produces a sphere 
of glowing blue force that can contain magical energies”. It also, I 
gather, is quite claustrophobic. 

You hurled this spell and then what, fled to the door, hoping to 
pull it open? That was pointless, wasn't it? The chamber only lasts 
a few moments under stress, which explains why the demon was 
stalking towards you when my men broke down the door. You really 
were extremely fortunate there. 

Now, what do you mean your father’s eyes went out when my 
men entered the cellar? Are you implying the demon left his body 
in time for us merely to dispose of an errant caster? That would cer- 
tainly explain your sobbing and pleading as we carried the sentence 
out. I do hope we didn’t hurt you too much, but you needed to be 
restrained. Decapitation can be a discomforting business if you're not 
used to it. 

A final clarification for our records. The demon’s eyes. Did they 
look like this? Or was there more smoke like this? And did its breath 
smell like rotting flesh with a hint of perfumed sulfur, like this? 

Ican assure you theres no point screaming. Or running. The door 
is locked. You're quite safe, even though you caused the death of your 
father. You could have stopped him; or been more eloquent in your 
pleas before the axe fell. But don’t worry, Gruffydd Aep Elis will be 
here soon to arrange for your care. Not that he does care, of course, 
it’s simply a service he’s been paid for by your mother. No, I wouldn't 
beg for your mother, you're too much your father’s daughter for her 
to come for you. 

Stop crying! I find your statement to be cloudy and inconsistent, 
but that’s what you get for relying on a child. Memories fade over 
time, and you've had nearly two centuries to forget the details. 

One day, you might take control. One day. If you can remem- 
ber the name your father spoke, in summoning that specific bes. You 
might even save another child from the same pain. 

But today is not that day. Today you have failed. Again. 

Wake up, Glynnis, you can try again another night. I'll be waiting. 


Mages of Interest 


“There is a bond between those who can work Chaos, one not easily shat- 
tered by mere politics or short-term national enmity. When wars rage, we 
stand for our nations while we feel they have a righteous cause but only 
those who wield this power can understand our hearts afterward.” 


And now we come to what you all think of when 
I say mages, sorcerers and sorceresses. All the 
people you expect to have wands and pointy hats. 
But they're not like that. Not that I'm endorsing 
them, of course. The pinnacle of magic on the 
Continent is perhaps sixty individuals, perhaps 
even less now. Wherever they came from, they 
are all able to channel a great deal of magical 
power. They are men and women, old and not 
quite so old, all of them looking like preening 
courtiers, especially, of course, the ladies. These 
are the ones who are trained at the great magic 
schools of the Continent. When I was a student, 
long ago, some of the sorceresses used to meet at 
the University. They were all as beautiful as but- 
terflies; but intrude on their meetings and you 
were fixed with as many cold, pointed gazes as 
there were sorceresses in the room. I was a young 
lad just trying to make a coin or two delivering 
messages or running errands to the kitchens of 
the better taverns but even I was daunted by their 
scorn. I stuck around quietly and unobtrusively 
because information is as easy to sell as bread but 
pays better. To outsiders they present a united 
front of haughty arrogance but among them- 
selves they are mostly catty, jealous, and quick to 
anger. I believe this is because they are among the 
only people who they believe can threaten them. 
In the “good old days” before the Northern Wars, 
every court and many barons, dukes, and wealthy 
merchants had resident mage advisors. ‘This is, 
in fact, what the young sorceresses were trained 
for at Aretuza: how to be beautiful, polished in 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


their manners, and seemingly deferential to their 
kings while always moving them in the direction 
the sorceress wanted them to go. 


The mage advisors had to report frequently 
to the Chapter and Council. They were the ones 
who made policy, who decided which young 
royal would be married off to whom, who 
decided whether the knowledge of magic would 
be shared by everyone else. Finally, the schem- 
ing went too far. Some of the mages chose to 
throw in with the elves and with Nilfgaard in 
return for great power in the reorganized North 
under Nilfgaardian rule. The opposition found 
out about this, the ones who still worked for 
and through the Northern Kings. There was a 
terrific row and mages died, those associated 
with Nilfgaard were arrested, and many Kings, 
unwilling to sort out who was who, expelled 
the mage advisors from their courts. Being a 
paranoid and brutal ruler, Radovid of Redania 
established the Witch Hunters to kill the mages 
of Redania. As a result of the Northern War the 
courts of Temeria and Aedirn were abolished. 
In the end, I understand that most Northern 
mages fled either to Kovir and Poviss or to God 
forsaken keeps and holdouts. Occasionally, 
I have seen mages traveling quietly through 
Oxenfurt. Though I understand the principle, 
it always shocks me that they will look just like 
they did when I was a student. Rumor has it that 
some are pushing for a new council of mages, 
perhaps even with the help some Nilfgaardian 
mages. 


Spells & 
_ Components _ 


The mages listed in the 
next several pages are 
accomplished members 
of magic society. Many 
of them have created 
new spells and many 
of them are deeply in- 
grained in the politics of 
the Continent in some 
way. In short, they are 
all highly capable, well 
prepared mages. When 
reading the following 
entries there are two 
things to keep in mind. 
Firstly, any mage listed 
in this roster is assumed 
to have the components 
necessary to perform 
any of the Rituals they 
know. Secondly, the Fa- 
vored Magic Section is 
intended to be a guide- 
line of the mage’s pre- 
ferred magical _ style. 
While they will focus on 
these spells, we encour- 
age you to augment their 
spell lists based on the 
needs of the game. 


Human Perception | 1 


N 


Persuasion 
Resist Coercion 
Resist Magic 
Riding 
Ritual Crafting 
Social Etiquette 


ll 


ele lel te 
WOO };/O]R]oOlola 


Spell Casting 


Staff/Spear 


Distillation | 6_ 
| Expanded Magic | 8 _ 
| Grape Vine | 8_ 


The Nightmare 


Favored Magic 


North knows too much about the Black Ones’ 
mages, but Vigo worked for the ducal house- 
hold in Beauclair for a while, an’ Toussaint’s, 
ah, a little laxer about their security. The mans 
a master illusionist, an’ not too shabby in other 
magic either. Heard some rumors he was the 
one to make a special workin for the Duchess 
Anna Henrietta an her sisters amusement 
when they were just young lasses. Rich folk, eh? 
Getting a serious mage like that to work for a 
childs fun. Of course, that’s not all he did while 
workin for the dukes aw’ duchesses of Toussaint, 
an he even found the time to write at least one 
book, “The Essence of Spells and Illusions”, if 
I'm remembering correctly. Brandon was afire 
to get a copy for the Oxenfurt library, said there 
was some useful talk about the mind in there, 
along with all the information on spells. Me, I 
dunno ‘bout some nobles mage knowin’ much 
about the way people think, but I managed to 
help Brandon get a copy. Artorius left Tous- 
saint a while back, maybe to write a couple 
more books, or maybe to help train his brothers 
daughter, Fringilla Vigo. Fringilla’s a member 
of the Lodge of Sorceresses an’ apparently not 
too shabby with illusions herself. Suppose magic 
does run in families sometimes. I never heard 
that Artorius was anythir but kind to his niece, 
but I wonder if he’s feeling good about the rela- 
tionship now; the Black Ones weren't too happy 
‘bout two of their own mages bein’ part of the 
Lodge, that’s for certain. Assire var Anahid, the 
other one, is dead now, an’ I haven't heard any- 
thiv about the younger Vigo either way. At very 
least, I haven't heard anythin about Artorius 
denouncir her, which might speak for itself” 


—Rodolf Kazmer 


Belt pouch 


Horse w/ racing saddle Saddlebags 
peas 


Elven walking staff Fashionable clothing 
) 


Gwent deck (Nilfgaard 


Wives tears potion 


Invisible ink Smelling salts 


Bronwyn Deadeye 


“Bronwyn Deadeye, the one and only Ban Ard- 
trained sorceress. No, I did not misspeak. See, 
Deadeye was born on Spikeroog in Skellige. 
Supposedly, when she was just a lass, she cursed 
a neighbor of hers, an’ was sent to train with 
the druids, the way Skelligers usually handle 
magic. Somewhere along the way she decided 
she didn’t want to be a druid and managed 
to get herself all the damn way to Ban Ard, 
where she did her learning. Ban Ards word on 
it is that they had no interest in turning down 
such a talented student, but if that’s the truth, 
they kept it unusually quiet ‘till after she grad- 
uated. Whatever the real story is, Deadeye'’s 
talent with air magics amazing—she’ created 
two spells, Bronwyns Gust and Bronwyn’ Bow. 
Though, her skill with combat magic might be 
because she went back to her roots when she 
graduated, picked up a ship and a crew aw 
started raiding with the rest of em! Mostly she 
hits the Black Ones, keeps a collection of insig- 
nias an such from officers she’s killed—an from 
what I’ve heard, its a damn large collection, 
heh, One of Deadeye’s claims to fame is the time 
she sailed up the Alba river ar’ led a raid on 
the City of the Golden Towers itself, back when 
the Usurper was still rulin’ Nilfgaard. She lost 
most of her crew an’ was badly injured herself, 
but she got away with her life an’ enough spoils 
to fund voyages for years, which counts as a 
win in my books, heh! Talk claims she’s been 
as far as Ofir, ar it’s even rumored she’s been 
to another continent far to the west. Deadeye’s 
rarely in port nowadays, which makes it easier 
for Skellige—druids're always a bit snippy when 
she comes up, though they never complain all 
that loudly, maybe for fear of her catchin’ wind.” 


—Rodolf Kazmer 


Favored Magic 


Broadhead bolts (x10) Gemstone amulet (x2) Wyvern trophy 


Skellige helm Hindarsfjall heavy armor | Hindarsfjall heavy chausses 


Grappling hook & rope Gwent deck (Skellige) 
Cold weather clothing Holy symbol (Freya) 


Ritual Crafting 


P Assets [8 
[Distillation | 9 | 
[Grape Vine | 6 
10 

[ Mutate | 0 | 


| Grape Vine | 6 
| InTouch | 8 
Mutate 


Cadfan of Ebbing 


“When first meeting Cadfan, one is assailed 
with the very image of the storybook evil wiz- 
ard. A thousand peasants could describe him 
without ever seeing the man. He affects a long 
black cloak and exotic robes. Likely the cloak’s 
hood will be pulled down, casting his face into 
shadow. Cadfan’s staff is old, dark wood with a 
bleached skull atop it. The rumor goes that the 
skull belongs to his master, who met a grisly 
fate after teaching Cadfan all he could. Some 
say they have seen him speaking to it. 

The educated may dig a little deeper and 
discover a man taken with the theatrical possi- 
bilities of a reputation. Strip away the disguise 
and Cadfan is a sparkling conversationalist 
with all the best gossip and a taste for good 
wine. He will smile and explain the skull is 
no relic of a tormented apprenticeship, merely 
ornamental. One may spend a happy evening 
discussing all manner of topics from theoretical 
chaos treatises to his exploits in the service of 
Emperor Fergus, which earned him a degree of 
respect and goodwill from that Worthy’ heir. 

One would be advised, however, to make it 
clear that someone knows where you are, for 
not all his guests leave after dinner. Beneath 
the cloak and shadows, Cadfan is a dangerous 
and capable necromancer, prone to using the 
unwary in his experiments. The ornamental 
skull on his staff changes with disturbing fre- 
quency and I suspect is the source of the eru- 
dite gossip he spreads so freely. 

Cadfan has constructed a dark and for- 
bidding tower in the Pereplut, deep within the 
inhospitable swamps of Ebbing. I believe, how- 
ever, that he maintains a house in Claremont, 
where he entertains the local worthies. The 
nature of these entertainments is not entirely 
clear, and I would hesitate to accept an invita- 
tion without extensive defensive preparations.” 

—Glynnis var Treharne 


Crystal staft 
Halfling protective doublet Adda’s tomb (x3) 


Chloroform (x3) Clotting powder (x3) 
Sterilizing fluid (x3) Alchemy set 
Shackles 


‘I must admit to a personal interest in 
Dormyn, as I’ve been an admirer of his craft 
since I was a girl. Indeed, one of his workings, 
Dormyn’s Chamber, was instrumental in my 
surviving long enough to write this. Nonethe- 
less, I shall attempt to keep to the facts. 

Gemmera breeds tough citizens who did 
not respond well to the Empire's advances 
when they were slated for conquest. When the 
armies swept in, the inhabitants resisted, and 
in resisting they were all but wiped out. A vic- 
tory of sorts, I suppose. 

Dormyn aided the resistance; a thorough- 
going battle mage, with the personality of an 
avalanche. He methodically flattened waves 
sent against his forces and those he did not 
lay low with magic he battered into submis- 
sion with his staff or simply cut down with 
his sword while they looked on in surprise. 
Unfortunately, one man, no matter how pow- 
erful, cannot stop an army. As Gemmera fell, 
Dormyn left rather than be enslaved. 

Some years later, rumors emerged of a pow- 
erful, solitary mage living in the Tir Torchair 
mountains. An expedition left, and the survi- 
vors reported that the intelligence was correct; 
that Dormyn had found a home among the 
gnomes and that he considered himself retired. 
The scouts heartily concurred with this assess- 
ment and the decision was taken to leave him 
be as long as he did not act against the Empire. 

Its said one should never meet a hero but 
despite this, I undertook the trek to the Tir Tor- 
chair where he maintains a stronghold carved 
from a network of limestone caves. Dormyn 
was no disappointment; I believe him to be con- 
structed of leather over stone, with a bushy beard 
and eyes that brook no nonsense. He listened to 
my babbled praise and then offered me tea.” 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


Dormyn of Gemmera 


» “nab 


“A 


Anabolic steroids elixir Magical elven rope 


Dice poker board 


Trail rations (1 day) 


Ritual Crafting 


Wilderness Survival 


REF | 6 | 
DEX | 6 | 


Dorregaray of Vole 


“Dorregaray of Vole is a mage in an odd posi- 
tion. First, he is considered a spy for King Ethain 
of Cidaris. Quite logical as he is from the small 
town of Vole in Cidaris. Apparently, hes not a 
particularly good spy, as at Thanedd he was 
put aside as simply a messenger to Cidaris and 
not actively involved on the side of the mages 
like Philippa Eilhart and Keira Metz who were 
loyal to their kings. Somehow, the Scoia’tael 
managed to shoot him in the back, puncturing 
his lung. Fortunately, being in a castle full of 
mages, Dorregaray was healed. 

He is also a sorcerer, which at least these 
days is a difficult position to be in. Except for 
evil genius, Vilgefortz of Roggeveen, and Hen 
Gedymdeith, the oldest mage alive up until 
Thanedd, male mages are just not taken all that 
seriously. Sorceresses hold most of the power. We 
have one story about a magical spat between 
Dorregaray and Yennifer of Vengerberg. While 
Dorregaray throws magical fire, when he gets 
tired of the spat, Yennifer uses magic to cause 
everyone involved to become numb and fall over. 

And then there is the obsession with 
endangered species. No one expects a mage to 
become worked up over lizard skin shoes but 
Dorregaray seems to be unable to hold a con- 
versation without decrying the over-harvest- 
ing of an infinite number of animal species. 

Since Thanedd, Dorregaray has been pro- 
moted to Rector of the Ban Ard school of magic 
for boys. He has the advantage of not being too 
threatening, and Ban Ard has the reputation of 
being a not-so-close second to the extremely elite 
school for girls at Aretuza. Hopefully, he will live 
comfortably in Ban Ard leading the students in 
campaigns to save endangered newts.” 

—Brandon of Oxenfurt 


Warhorse w/ racing saddle | Military saddlebags| Racing blinders | Gemstone amulet 


Elven walking staff Purple velvet kaftan} Invisible ink 


Halfling protective doublet 
Chalk (x4) Fishing gear 


Cold weather clothing 


Megascope 


Elgan of Verden 


“During our studies of mages I was most inter- 
ested in Elgan of Verden. He is a specialist mage, 
fascinated by all things Earth. He is well known 
to some of the instructors at Ban Ard who told 
me about named spells he has created. I was 
intrigued since most of the male mages these 
days seem to be either evil, or hanging from the 
bottom rung of mage society. Apparently Elgan 
is so focused on his magical studies that he has 
let go of the rungs entirely and rarely leaves the 
mountains. We found that, quite sensibly for 
someone studying the earth, Elgan now lives 
in Mahakam among the dwarves. It seems that 
the only thing he misses from life outside the 
mountains is the variety of beers produced in 
northern countries. So, of course, Rodolf and 
I filled his wagon with the greatest selection of 
beers we could find and set off. 

When we arrived in Mahakam Rodolf 
sent a dwarfling to tell Elgan that visitors had 
arrived. As we expected it took some time for 
him to be found in the tunnels and chambers 
but eventually he did appear. Rodolf told him 
that we were creating a tome of magic so that 
no history or spells were lost. He seemed to 
think that was a reasonable project. I found 
that he speaks quite fluent dwarvish and 
nordling, retaining the somewhat sing-song 
accent of Verden. 

Ensconced in his tidy quarters, we found 
that he is much valued by the dwarves as he 
magically reinforces their tunnels, points them 
toward exceptional veins of precious ores and 
rids the diggings of monsters. He told us about 
his studies, about his named spells, about the 
geology of the Mahakam mountains, and a bit 
about his disdain for the magic community. 
Indeed, we talked, or I should say listened, 
well into the night accompanied by fine beer.” 

—Brandon of Oxenfurt 


fi 


Smith’s Touch 


The Eternal Itch 


Gemstone amulet 


Belt pouch 


Bredan’s fury (x2) 


Dice poker board 


Grappling hook & rope 


Quality prosthetic leg Beer (x3) 


Hex Weaving 


Key Skills 


10 


po 
10 | 
Po 
a 
ee 
a 


1 
7 


HINT [5 


PREF [ 8 


rex [| 


Performance 


Ritual Crafting 


MP 
era [s || HP (35) 


20 


Key Skills 


aa 
Ls] 


Magical Guestbook 


Magic Barrier 


Francesca Findabair 


“Iam sorry that I have never been in the pres- 
ence of Francesca Findabair, Enid an Gleanna, 
Queen of the Elves. Beauty is a hard thing to 
define. But there appears to be no question 
that Queen Enid is the most beautiful woman 
in the world. She is a full-blooded Aen Seidhe 
of royal lineage. Her very great age is appar- 
ently not even hinted at by her beauty. She 
was disowned by her father, one of the Aen 
Saevherne, or Sages of the elves, because she 
did not turn her back on rest of the world and 
follow her father into exile. 

The more I study what is known of Queen 
Enid, the more respect I have for her. Many 
people of the North hate her because she threw 
her fate in with that of Nilfgaard and Vilge- 
fortz of Roggeveen at the Thanedd conclave. 
Many hate her because she accepted Nilf- 
gaardian terms deserting the Scoia’tael and 
not allowing them to return to Dol Blathanna 
after it had been reclaimed by the elves. 

During her lifetime, Queen Enid has seen 
her people, at that time far beyond humans in 
art, architecture, social structure, and knowl- 
edge, pushed by human violence farther and 
farther to the east, destroying their beautiful 
cities behind them. Eventually the elves that 
did not choose to acclimate to human soci- 
ety found themselves starving to death in the 
peaks of the Blue Mountains. Through all of 
this Queen Enid has chosen to fight for her 
people in whatever way she could. Betray the 
North and ally with Nilfgaard to re-establish 
a homeland for her people? Of course. In her 
lonely position as the only representative of the 
elves, who wouldn't do just about anything to 
establish a place where her people could be safe 
and take a shot at rebuilding their culture.” 

—Brandon of Oxenfurt 


Gear 


Elven walking staff Makeup kit 


Halfling protective doublet Four-leaf clover 
Belt pouch Smelling salts 


Crystal Skull (Hawk) Fashionable clothing 
i 


Map of the Continent 


Signal whistle Horse w/ saddle 


In the taverns of the Nazairi interior, when Nil- 
fgaardian loyalists have sensibly retired, bards 
may sing very quietly of their rebellion against 
the Empire. One of these stories tells of a unit of 
imperial knights, tasked with the gathering of 
magical knowledge in the province. One by one, 
these men were hunted down and vanquished, 
although the details vary. Some say they were 
found dashed to pieces at the bottom of cliffs, 
others that they were found in their encamp- 
ment with congested faces and lolling tongues. 
Or perhaps they simply vanished overnight. 

The culprit was one Drystan of Nazair, 
the scion of a minor noble house, who owned 
an unremarkable estate overlooking the sea 
where he taught gifted, young nobles the mag- 
ical arts. When the soldiers came to Nazair, 
Drystan cared not a jot. When his relations 
fled, he barely noticed, caught up in his study. 

When the order was given to seize his 
magical research, he simply paid off an appro- 
priate guard to look the other way while he 
removed his notes and equipment, including 
a monogrammed alembic he was particu- 
larly fond of. By some oversight, this last was 
missed and boxed to be transported with the 
rest of the paraphernalia. 

Drystan retaliated against the loss of his 
property with the power ofa fully trained mage 
and the maturity of a toddler. The knights died 
quite horribly, and he then fled to the capital 
of Nazair, where the Crescent Moon welcomed 
him and his romantic legend. 

His current whereabouts are a mystery, 
though he has been known to attend parties in 
an obviously covert guise, all tailored leather jer- 
kins, breeches, and flirtatious hair. He cuts quite 
the figure—and a swathe through the daughters 
of nobility who really ought to know better.” 

—Glynnis var Treharne 


Favored Magic 


Crystal staff Belt pouch Gwent deck (Scoiatael) 
Vrihedd cavalry sword Halfling protective doublet 


Black venom (x2) 
Horse w/ racing saddle 
Loaded dice 


Ritual Crafting 


[mains | 2 
| Magical Training | 10 


id 


| Expanded Magic | 6 _| 
| InTouch | 8 | 


Favored Magic 


Fringilla Vigo 


“It is not in the Nilfgaardian tradition for mages 
to be overtly stylish; to pay attention to fashion 
is deemed a waste of energy that could be bet- 
ter used in service. Fringilla bucks this trend 
and indeed sets others. She comes from distant 
nobility and brings with her an air of gracious 
attention, bearing, and dangerous competency. 

Fringilla delights in subverting expectations; 
by dedicating genuine effort to her appearance, 
she might be expected to have let her studies go 
by the wayside, but she is a dangerous combatant 
and quite single-minded in attaining her goals. 
She’ an interesting character study but I would 
be wary of relying on her in extremity unless 
working towards a clear mutual destination. 

Her membership in the Lodge of Sorceresses 
is one such case; primarily composed of Northern 
practitioners Fringilla clearly held no compunc- 
tion against joining them and offering them her 
allegiance over the Empire. That said, her abili- 
ties lie beyond the merely social and she proved 
herself in battle at Sodden, fighting for Nilfgaard. 
I can only imagine the apologies she felt neces- 
sary when next she met her fellow Lodge mem- 
bers over drinks rather than a barricade. 

That said, I have misgivings as to the Lodge 
itself; Nilfgaard often treats its mages as tools; 
but the Lodge as a tool to control the crowned 
heads of the Continent sits poorly with me. By 
setting ourselves too far above people we can 
gain delusions of grandeur and lose sight of 
the consequences of our actions on individu- 
als. 

Perhaps it’s a necessary idea and one that 
needs to flower and fall naturally to be fully 
excised. Be that as it may, Fringilla is clearly 
at home with the politics, the reputation, and 
the parties. She never enters a room unre- 
marked, and I believe she enjoys that fact.” 

—Glynnis var Treharne 


Crystal staff_| Halfling protective doublet 
Makeup kit Perfume (x2) Belt pouch Fashionable clothing 


Horse w/ racing saddle 
Invisible ink Jewelry (x2) 
Gwent deck (Nilfgaard) Eye of Nehaleni 


Istredd 


“Istredd is an esoteric scholar of magic. Most 
mages have never seen him, as he lives in a 
small, dodgy village rather than any of the 
cities which hold materials for research. He 
doesn't seem to have belonged to any of the 
mage organizations but does publish research 
papers that somehow make their way to meet- 
ings and conclaves. Unfortunately, they are 
usually so specific and filled with magical 
jargon that they are not widely read. In aca- 
demia, one must remember that using rarefied 
terminology isn't the same as having some- 


thing to say. d 
. , y a eo , ; | Awareness _—| | 18 | 
es one of those mages who buy calves , . oy ee 


with two heads or chunks of unicorn horn 
from village people. If you live among mages, 
then you must wonder who is the stronger or 
more knowledgeable, but if you are the only 
mage for 25 miles in all directions it is easy 
to be superior to your surroundings. It would 
be nice to believe that mages choose these sur- 
roundings to help and protect “the little peo- : 
ple.” Not likely really. You are The Mage of Favored Magic 
the town and the people around you feel awe - 
or fear. You can be a small magical fish in a 
smaller magical pool. Not all the graduates of 
Ban Ard are ready to fight their way to the top. 
Some of his recent papers which I was 
able to find in Oxenfurt have moved away 


‘ =f Hex Weaving 
—— 


pes alone tae 
and how lives were lived centuries ago. Per- 

haps he wishes to delve into the past to reach 
the time before humans, because still little Wilderness Survival | _20 
is known about the magic of the Aen Seidhe 

and the elves aren't talking. Rumor has it that 
Istredd once dueled the famed witcher, Geralt 
of Rivia, but I doubt that quite highly. 


—Brandon of Oxenfurt 
| Grape Vine | 6 
[esr Ea] 
etn Ee) 


Addais tomb (x2) |__ Smelling salts Ma aaa 


Journal (x4) Fashionable clothing 
Belt pouch __| Gwent deck (Monster) 


| Reverse Engineer | 8 _| 
Crystal skull (Kestrel) esa 


Alchemy 


Human Perception 


Mutate 


Le] 


7 


Ls] 


Keira Metz 


Favored Magic 


“Keira Metz is another member of the Lodge 
of Sorceresses. Bit of a fussy one, Metz—never 
fond of muck or mess, appreciated the finer 
things in life. Terrified of rats, if I remember, 
an used twenty-crown words all the time, too, 
even when regular ones would do. She was 
workin’ for King Foltest back before the second 
war with Nilfgaard broke out, but he exiled 
her after the Thanedd coup. Why, I dunno—I 
heard she did well, beatin up on Artaud 
Terranova with a set of brass knuckles, heh! 
Unfortunately, the bastard got the better of 
her when the tide turned, threw her out a win- 
dow with a couple of nasty injuries. Lucky for 
her, she made it out alive. After being exiled, 
she must've joined up with the Lodge, workin’ 
with Philippa Eilhart to make that country for 
mages. Shed been lyiw low for a couple years 
after the end of the second war, but it didn't 
stop her from being charged with treason over 
the deaths of King Demavend and Foltest, 
same as the rest of the Lodge. I suppose the 
reasonin was that they all must've been in 
on it, an’ Metz definitely had a reason for a 
grudge against Foltest...I can’t help feeling like 
there’s another explanation, though. Nobody's 
sure where she is or what she’s doin’ now, what 
with the North howlin’ for mages’ blood, espe- 
cially the Lodge’s, an’ the Black Ones havin 
taken most of Temeria an’ Aedirn, damn their 
eyes. There’s been some rumors of a talented 
witch in Velen, though I can’t picture Keira 
Metz being all that pleased with peasant liv- 
ing. On the other hand, if it is her, maybe she 
can do somethin about the Catriona plague— 
it’s startin to spread again which is the last 
thing we need with a war going on. She was 
always good with potions an’ such.” 

—Rodolf Kazmer 


Crystal staff Halfling protective doublet | Crystal Skull (Cat) 


Jewelry (x4) ashionable clothing (x2) | Numbing herbs (x3) 


B 
Makeup kit 
Tk 


F 
empest elixir (x3 Tempest elixir formula Lightning elixir 


Lightning elixi ee : oe 
recourses ca Strider elixir Strider elixir formula Telecommunicator 
formula 


Margarita Laux-Antille 


“Margarita Laux-Antille, known as Rita to 
friends, is one of the most influential mem- 
bers of the magical sorority. She is descended 
from one Ilona Laux-Antille, a powerful 
sorceress who was the assistant to Aretuzas 
previous Rectoress, Tissaia de Vries. Magi- 
cal heritage is uncommon as those born to 
magical parents often become overwhelmed 
by their inherited gift but when it does occur 
it applies a great deal of pressure to the inher- 
itors. In Margarita’s case, this great ancestry 
pushed her to become an important part of 
magical society. As a girl she attended Are- 
tuza in the same class as Yennifer of Ven- 
gerberg which may be why she has taken her 
physical perfection even farther than most 
sorceresses. And yet she is less arrogant than 
her peers. Their headmistress was the afore- 
mentioned Tissaia de Vries, no doubt fur- 
ther stoking the fire of Margarita’s ambition. 
Eventually, Margarita succeeded Tissaia, 
becoming Rectoress of Aretuza. Margarita 
is known for her devotion to her school and 
her students. Apparently, no one even consid- 
ered that she might be involved in the scan- 
dal at the Thanedd conclave. But she could 
not escape the crisis that started at Thanedd. 
Eventually she would have to leave Aretuza 
to save her students from the anti-magical 
backlash. She got as far as Novigrad in the 
hopes of reaching safety in Kovir and Poviss, 
but walked into the Novigrad of Radovid’s 
mage hunters. In the end, her students are 
being burned at the stake one by one. She 
only survives because Radovid wants her to 
witness the horror of their deaths but her exe- 
cution is soon approaching. Truly, she is one 
of the saddest stories in the magical world.” 
—Brandon of Oxenfurt 


Gear 


Crystal staff | Halfling protective doublet 
Fashionable clothing Alchemy set Ritual pouch 


Numbing herbs Jewelry (x2) 
Spell formulae (x4) 
Crystal skull (Swallow) 


Mutate 


10 
ea 
[a 
[S| 
5 


[os] 


Philippa Ei lhart 


“Philippa Eilhart. Heh. Very dangerous mage— 
powerful enough to polymorph into an owl. 
Used to advise King Vizimir and was even 
involved with his spymaster Sigismund Dijks- 
tra for a while though Id call that an affair of 
convenience since she’ strictly for other women. 
Eilhart been a real leader among the North- 
ern Mages. Durin’ the Thanedd Coup she and 
the other mages loyal to the North, Dijkstra, 
and a bunch of Redanian soldiers captured the 
mages whod been bought by Nilfgaard. Some- 
thin’ must've gone wrong, though, cause the 
Black Ones’ mages got free, and it turned into 
a bloodbath. After seeing the fall of the Council, 
Eilhart started a group of her own, the Lodge of 
Sorceresses. Rumor has it they wanted to create 
a country for magic and mages, or some shite. 
Of course, now most of the Lodge is wanted for 
treason, Eilhart included, so that tells you how 
that turned out, heh. Damned witch was mixed 
up in the murder of King Foltest, too. She was 
even fosterin’ a peasant uprising to try to con- 
trol the Pontar Valley after the Lodge hired the 
Witcher Letho to start killin’ kings. Of course, 
Letho was probably workin’ for Nilfgaard all 
along, and her plans started going wrong when 
her apprentice Cynthia turned out to be a spy 
for the Black Ones. King Radovid even had Eil- 
hart’s eyes put out when he captured her in Loc 
Muinne. I suppose Eilharts damn near takin’ 
over Redania after Vizimir was assassinated 
explains where Radovid got his grudge against 
her. Radovids still tryin’ to chase her down and 
finish what he started, and the Witch Hunters 
are tearin apart Velen lookin’, but shes clean 
vanished. Suppose youd have a lot more hiding 
places as an owl, but I don't think for a minute 
we've seen the last of this one.” 

—Rodolf Kazmer 


Gear 


Belt pouch Makeup kit 
See 


Crystal staff Halfling protective doublet 
Fashi 


Alchemy set Secret pocket (x2) ashionable clothing 
Jewelry (x2) Sterilizing fluid (x3) 


Sile de Tancarville 


“Sile de Tancarville’s famed for two things: her 
connection with the Lodge of Sorceresses and 
being downright reclusive. I figure she joined 
up with the Lodge hopin that those achieving 
their goals would let her research in peace— a 
woman who resigns from a seat on the Coun- 
cil of Wizards because it’s interfering with her 
work sure isn't interested in politics for pow- 
ers sake. Heard some rumors that shed been 
workin’ with Queen Zuleyka to keep Prince 


Tankred Thyssen outta trouble. Seems to have 
worked, and maybe even left some fond mem- t : Alchemy 
ories, heh, given he’s King of Kovir now, an’ 
the only Northern ruler still willin’ to take a Echaeriaieeel ne 
chance with mages. De Tancarville popped up 2 ce i 
in Flotsam not quite half a year ago, duriw 
the mess with the Kingslayer; apparently, Dodge/Escape 
she was there to take care of a kayran in the 
town’s port. She wound up workin’ with Geralt 
of Rivia to kill the beast, and used somethin’ : 
ee: ; Grooming and Style 
from the kayran to help with King Henselt’, 
heh, marital problems, gaining his trust. Of ee sah 
course, then the Kingslayers tried for Hen- 
selt, and at Loc Muinne it all came out that ; 
Favored Magic ; 

the whole thing had been a plot of the Lodge. - 
Theyd hired the a group of Witchers to kill the Dispel 
rulers that weren't bendir over for the whims Elgan’s Theory 
of mages. The Lodge’s plot started going all to Essence of Potion ; ; 

pe oe Ritual Crafting 
pieces with that. De Tancarville tried to make enone —— 
her escape after a damn dragon attacked the Social Etiquette 
conference. Some folks swear that her megas- Mental Command Spell Casting 
cope blew and the sorceress met a grisly fate, 
an some swear Geralt of Rivia saved her life 


instead. Can't say for sure if being on the run 
for treason’s much of a life, especially not with 
what the Eternal Fire’s been doin’ to mages 
they catch...” 


—Rodolf Kazmer 


Crystal staff Halfling protective doublet Gemstone amulet 
Alchemy set Belt pouch 


Strider elixir (x3) 
Alchemical adhesive (x2) | Fashionable clothing | Silver fox fur boa 
Clotting powder (x2) Invisible ink 


rex | 6 


WILL | 9 | 


Awareness 
Hex Weaving 


Key Skills 


Grape Vine 
Mutate 


Lo | 


Interactive Illusion 


Stregobor of Kovir 


“Stregobor of Kovir is the most wizardy-lookin 
wizard I’ve seen in my entire life. Tall for a 
human, skinny as a stick, staff, robes, the whole 
vein of ore, heh. Mostly did illusions and weather, 
but he was obsessed with the Curse of the Black 
Sun. Whole-heartedly believed in the prophecy 
of Eltibald, that “sixty women wearing golden 
crowns would drown the river valleys in blood” 
to mark the return of the evil goddess Lilit. And 
so, when an eclipse appeared, Stregobor started 
researching princesses born durir it. All sorts 
of rumors that the Black Sun Princesses were 
evil, or mutated, or possessed, all from birth. 
After a few years and more than a few dissec- 
tions, Stregobor was considered an expert on 
em. Things went sideways when he was called 
in to deal with Renfri of Creyden, though. He 
confirmed she was twisted from the Black Sun, 
an the girls stepmother supposedly sent her into 
the woods with a hunter after to kill her. But 
Renfri escaped em, maybe killed em, an’ blamed 
Stregobor for ruining her life. Dedicated herself 
to killin him, aw’ word is she nearly did it in 
Mahakam, but Stregobor froze her in a slab of 
crystal and ran. She got free with a bit of help 
an kept trackir’ him, picked up a crew along the 
way. Eventually Stregobor wound up cornered in 
Blaviken, aw that is when Geralt of Rivia showed 
up. Id heard that Geralt wasn't fond of Stregobor, 
that the maged gotten the Witcher chased out of 
Kovir on a false accusation, but somethin’ hap- 
pened in that town. I doubt anyone knows the 
whole story except Stregobor and the Butcher 
of Blaviken himself, but there were seven people 
dead in the marketplace, one of em Renfri, aw’ 
Geralt of Rivia wasn't letting anyone touch her 
body. Stregobor went back to Kovir and hasn't 
been bothered since.” 

—Rodolf Kazmer 


Crystal staff 
Alchemy set Alchemical adhesive 


Adda’s tomb (x3) 
Cold weather clothing 


Xarthisius 


“There is no doubt in my mind that Xarthis- 
ius has significant divinatory capabilities. But 
divination in itself is a tricky subject as it often 
produces results that are unsatisfactory to the 
person seeking answers. 

In his youth, Emperor Emhyr was placed 
under a curse by the Sorcerer Braathens, to 
legitimize the coup against hi father. None of 
that line respond well to pressure and this lead 
to Fergus’ death and his cursed sons exile. 

‘The boy was able to garner some support- 
ers, including Xarthisius. Through astrology 
and divinations Xarthisius directed Emhyrs 
party North, where he claimed, in his vague 
fashion, that a cure could be found. 

Fortunately, the divination proved accu- 
rate, after a fashion and a great deal of time in 
the life of a mundane human. Xarthisius was 
well-rewarded, with a tower in the Summer 
Capital, Loc Grimm, fully equipped with all the 
astrological equipment his heart could desire. 

Rulers are famously fickle, however, and when 
Xarthisius was called upon to do service once 
more his divinations proved woefully inaccurate 
and much time was wasted dispatching an Impe- 
rial agent to comb a hundred square miles of des- 
ert-haystack in search of a person-shaped needle. 
Naturally, the Emperor assumed Xarthisius was 
incompetent and the poor man exchanged his 
tower with a view of the stars for a cell. 

In our rare encounters, for he seldom ven- 
tured from his tower, I saw no malice in Xarthi- 
sius. He’ a slightly vague, overly earnest man 
with a touching faith in the ability of the stars 
to provide accurate guidance. The more I have 
pondered his imprisonment, the more I am 
convinced that his divination must have been 
correct and that some other wrinkle must have 
led to the failure of the Emperor's agent.” 

—Glynnis var Treharne 


Urien’s Shelter 


Elven walking staff 


Dagger 


Map of the Continent Alchemy set Writing kit 


Basic clothing Belt pouch 


Flint & steel Astrological text 
Gwent deck (Nilfgaard) Bedroll Holy symbol (The Great Sun) 


Hex Weaving 


17 


Key Skills 


[es] 
Pe] 
[| 
Pe] 
ea 
Pe] 
ea 


und ( ad Alou 


The mountain air of Lyria and Rivia makes for a pleasant 
change compared to the war-torn lands of Temeria—the cold 
breeze too weak to carry the smoke of pyres and the stench of 
decay from the body pits. War seems a distant thing here, a bad 
memory or forgotten nightmare—out of the reach of the White 
Flame Dancing on the Grave of His Enemies. But a violent his- 
tory lingers here in the marks left behind. Rivia, a city scarred 
by pogroms, sits in the shadow of the Craag Ros mountains 
on the horizon, somber and tarnished by the hatred its people 
hold. Tension bleeds like pus from a lanced wound, infecting 
all that encounter it. You see it in each suspicious look, hear it 
in every venomous word. And here, in the outlying village of 
Spetz, something is about to snap. 


The village of Spetz has been plagued by a demon for over 
four years now, the strange creature appearing and lin- 
gering outside one home, pleading to be let in. The peas- 
ants are terrified, now fearing the family inside the home 
the demon is drawn to. Given Rivia’s history, this fear 
seems destined to become an all-consuming hatred that 
is waiting to end in bloodshed. All it needs is one little 
push...something must give. Players must figure out how 
to appease this demon but discover along the way that 
it’s not the only monster lurking in the village, hidden in 
plain sight. 


Setting 


Players arrive in Spetz, a tiny mountain village 
in the unified kingdoms of Lyria and Rivia, the 
western capital of Rivia only a day’s ride north 
and the Yaruga river a few miles south. Lyria 
and Rivia were conquered by the Nilfgaardian 
Army not long ago but the land is still rife with 
fighting; Queen Meve managing to keep out of 
Emperor Emhyr’s clutches and rally a partisan 
force. Still, the state of the nation has only con- 
tinued to suffer. Since the pogroms, Rivia and 
its outlying settlements have struggled to make 
any progress between the human and non-hu- 
man population. Anyone that isn't human, or 
that isn’t ‘natural’, is treated with suspicion and 
contempt and it’s clear that the people of Spetz 
are at their breaking point. The demon plagu- 
ing them must go, and the family it's drawn to 
must go with it if that’s what it takes. 


But there is more to this story than a fam- 
ily simply unfortunate enough to earn the 
attention of a monster. This creature was sum- 
moned—to give a ‘perfect child’ toa mother and 
father terrified of what their neighbors would 
think of them and so an exchange was made. 
A life for a life. When the truth is revealed, 
the player characters must decide where they 
stand—with the demon who came to make 
good on a pact settled years ago? Or with the 
parents who did the unthinkable? Either way, 
Spetz is reaching its breaking point. Just how 
much will be consumed in the flames? 


Forces 


This adventure can be run with up to six 
player characters from either side of the war. 
So long as none of the characters are notori- 
ously known as enemies of Lyria and Rivia or 
Queen Meve, nor present themselves as such, 
they shouldn't run into any trouble with any of 
the locals or guards. The number of enemies 
in combat should be equal to the players plus 
two, unless stated otherwise. 


The Opposition Will Be 


¢ The Mari Lwyd, a demon summoned by 
Clenn and Ena Padd to give them a ‘per- 
fect son. No one knows the true name of 


the demon, so they have taken to calling 
it the Horse of Frost. This demon did as 


it was asked, but the parents failed to be 
specific about the terms of the deal; now 
it seeks to fulfill the final part of the con- 
tract. The demon can’t enter the family 
home without express permission from 
Clenn or Ena and so seeks to find a way 
in, using its ability to steal and wear the 
skin of others to try and fool the parents 
into letting it in. 

Clenn Padd and his wife Ena, are the 
parents and social pariahs who sum- 
moned the Horse of Frost and made the 
exchange for another child in place of 
the one they already had. Ever since the 
demon’ return, their lives have been in 
upheaval. The locals now fear them, and 
their child and they have been ostracized 
by the community, shunned by everyone 
they know. The villagers are terrified, and 
this has started to lead to anger and hos- 
tility toward the family. 


Orin is the son of Clenn and Ena and 
doesn't know nor realize why the Horse of 
Frost wants him. He is five years old and 
quiet, not having had the luxury of mak- 
ing friends now the village has turned on 
them. He usually plays by himself inside 
the house and his parents spend most of 
their time arguing. Though Orin doesn't 
understand what the demon is, it appears 
to have an effect over him—trying to 
tempt him to open the door and let it in. 
These—what his parents refer to as ‘out- 
bursts’ —have become more frequent over 
the passing weeks and they are afraid of 
what will happen to their son if they ever 
fail to stop him from opening the door. 


Gart is the alderman of Spetz and seem- 
ingly the only person in the entire village 
who holds any sympathy for the strug- 
gling family. He will enlist the help of the 
characters to try to get rid of this demon 
and end its tormenting of his neighbors. 


Das is a human neighbor of Clenn and 
his family and is proving to be a prob- 
lem. He’s become more outspoken and 
aggressive regarding the situation with 
the demon and Gart is worried that he 


A Brief History 
of Lyria & Rivia 


Rivia was once a tiny 
kingdom in the Dol 
Angra valley, on lands 
that have since been giv- 
en back to the elves by 
Nilfgaardian Emperor 
Embhyr var Emreis. After 
the Six Years’ War in the 
9th century and later dis- 
putes with rulers of Te- 
meria and Cintra in the 
11th, Rivia garnered a 
reputation for providing 
asylum to war refugees 
and political opponents. 
In the 12th century, it 
was recognized as one 
of the two major powers 
within the region, shar- 
ing notability with rival 
kingdom, Lyria. In 1133, 
King Berrik of Lyria as- 
cended to Rivia’s throne 
and formed a union 
between the two king- 
doms. This unity lasted 
no longer than a gener- 
ation before two differ- 
ent heirs ascended upon 
his death. In the first 
half of the 13th century, 
King Reginald of Rivia 
married Princess Meve 
of Lyria and once again 
joined the two king- 
doms. Reginald died in 
1258 and left the throne 
to his wife, Meve, who 
rules now. In 1268, the 
capital of Rivia was the 
scene of a horrendous 
pogrom between hu- 
mans and non-humans, 
resulting in a massacre. 
Four years on, the ten- 
sions are still high. 


The Rivian 
Pogroms 


Four years ago—1268— 
an argument between 
young noblewoman Na- 
dio Esposito and a group 
of dwarves in Rivias city 
marketplace became ex- 
tremely heated and erupt- 
ed into violence. The hu- 
mans formed a pogrom 
against the non-humans, 
killing 184 in a savage 
attack. This was not the 
last pogrom to occur in 
Rivia, but it was the first 
on its scale, marking what 
would become a future of 
hate and oppression. It is 
often referred to as the 
Massacre in Rivia. 


will incite other villagers to do some- 
thing extreme. Lately, the folk have been 
agreeing more with Das than their own 
alderman. Das’ character serves to act as 
a red herring, tricking the players into 
thinking he’s the Horse of Frost wearing 
Das’ skin to throw them off the trail in 
the final confrontation. 


¢ Arrik of Scala was the local pellar who 
lived outside of the village in a small 
hut in the woods. He helped the Padd 
family for the past few years to keep the 
Horse of Frost at bay but was killed a 
few weeks prior when the Order of the 
Flaming Rose passed through on one 
of their witch hunts. His ransacked and 
now-abandoned hut sits to the northwest 
of Spetz. 


¢ The peasants will eventually rise into a 
mob in the final confrontation, tensions 
finally breaking into a violent fallout. 
Player characters can choose to attempt 
to defuse the situation and kill the demon 
or step aside and let the Horse of Frost 
finally get what it wants. 


Set Up (Read Aloud) 


It’s raining by the time you stumble across a 
village hidden in the pine trees. Mud and moss 
squelch under you as you're slowly soaked to 
the bone, rain working its way through gaps in 
your armor and clothes. Twenty or so buildings 
sit huddled together with the shutters drawn 
against the foul weather. A few geese waddle 
about aimlessly and a lone mule stands deject- 
edly in a fenced paddock, worrying at a limp 
bale of hay as you pass. There are very few peo- 
ple milling around, and all of them eye you with 
clear suspicion on their faces and in the unspo- 
ken tension in the air. Someone murmurs some- 
thing behind their hand. A gruff voice speaks up: 


Youre ere for the cursed ones, ain't ye? 


Hook 


As the characters enter Spetz, draw their atten- 
tion toward an older man sitting in the door- 
way of his home on a stool, descaling fish. If 
any characters are non-human and have taken 


no measures to hide this, he will pointedly 
narrow his eyes at them, a sharp look of disap- 
proval on his face. 


The man glowers at you, small watery eyes 
set into his worn face. His lips twist sourly 
beneath his coarse, thick beard. Cheeks, 
weathered and ruddy, are flushed from the 
cold air and the effort of descaling, running 
the curved blade of the knife along the length 
of the fish he has on the wooden block at his 
feet. Clearing his throat, he hawks a wad of 
spit and says: 


Or are you lot freaks, too? 


Other peasants appear drawn to the 
ruckus this man is making—especially when 
the word ‘freak’ is thrown out. Their suspi- 
cious stares become glares of contempt, but 
none seem brave enough to speak up and 
interrupt him. The player characters have a 
few options here: they can choose to converse 
with this man, ignore him, or confront him 
themselves. 


Converse 


If the player characters choose to speak with 
the man, he will introduce himself as Das; a 
local fisherman and self-proclaimed ‘voice’ 
for Spetz’ inhabitants. He is arrogant, self-im- 
portant, and loud—happy to be ignorant 
and rude to anyone who is ‘different’ (read: 
non-human). 


If asked what he means about ‘cursed 
ones, he will explain that there is a family 
on the very edge of the village who meddled 
in something they shouldn't have and now a 
monster has been plaguing them for the past 
six months. Das is adamant that the family are 
plotting to sacrifice everyone to the monster 
and he refuses to let them stay in Spetz any 
longer; they are too great a threat. According 
to him, they have long outstayed their wel- 
come—a sentiment echoed by the murmurs of 
approval from the gathering crowd. 


Ignore or Confront 


If the player characters choose to either con- 
front or ignore Das, he will erupt into a sud- 
den tirade of anger—cursing, threatening, and 
causing as much of a commotion as he can. He 


is a conceited, unpleasant man, and despises 
being ignored or challenged. 


He will accuse the player characters of 
somehow being in league with the family of 
‘cursed mongrels’, especially if any of the 
characters are non-humans. Though the other 
peasants agree with the things Das says about 
this family or any non-human characters, they 
won't get as aggressive or assertive as he does. 
If any player characters try to walk away from 
him, Das will get up and attempt to block their 
path, getting up in their personal space. 


Should any of the characters attack Das, 
treat him as having bandit stats but without 
armor and only a dagger as a weapon. 


Regardless of how the players react to Das, 
the commotion caused draws the attention of 
Gart—Spetz alderman—who asserts himself 
to defuse the situation, saying: 


Now, now. That’s more than enough of that. 
What’ going on here? 


Gart is a human man the same age as Das 
and is somewhat financially better off than the 
rest of the village. His clothes are practical, but 
made of finer material, and a pair of specta- 
cles sit perched on his round nose. His gray- 
ing hair is thinning about the top of his head 


and he often pulls at it with his fingers to comb 
over the bald patches. He is fresh-shaven and 
significantly cleaner than the other villagers, 
carrying himself with an air of importance and 
purpose—clearly taking pride in his position. 


Das thinks little of Gart and openly shows 
this through derisive looks and bad attitude. 
Currently, the alderman is the only person 
preventing the so-called ‘cursed’ family from 
being driven out of Spetz—stopping Das’ desire 
of seeing them banished. However, Das holds 
some respect for the authority Gart has, and he 
wont act out of turn and get rid of the family 
himself. Instead, it is Das’ intent to sow dissent 
amongst the other peasants so that Gart will be 
forced to make the family leave. 


If any of the player characters are a 
Witcher, Gart will be somewhat relieved to see 
them. Despite Lyria’s reputation for hatred of 
non-humans, Gart understands that this situ- 
ation requires a professional. It’s a fact reluc- 
tantly acknowledged across the Continent 
that without Witchers, monsters would run 
rampant. As such, Gart will generally be polite 
and cordial to any non-humans, but the fear 
is still clear on his face; he wants the players 
to resolve this problem and be on their way as 
soon as possible. 


Checking In 


Throughout this ad- 
venture, there are many 
topics that may be un- 
comfortable or upset- 
ting for your players. It 
is your responsibility as 
GM to ensure all at the 
table is having a safe 
and fun experience. Ask 
your players beforehand 
about boundaries and 
lines they may have and 
make them aware of the 
general content of this 
adventure—you dont 
have to reveal spoilers 
to do this. For example, 
ask: “There are themes 
of ableism and racism in 
this adventure, is every- 
one okay with playing 
through this?’ Be sure to 
check in after scenes that 
heavily involve or touch 
up such topics. Everyone 
should have fun and feel 
safe when playing at the 
table. 


Chased Out 


If the players end up kill- 
ing Das at this point, 
the other peasants—Gart 
included—will take up 
arms and chase them 
out of Spetz. Refer to the 
peasant stat block at the 
end of this adventure. 
Then go to Ending (Cold 
and Alone). 


When Gart intervenes, Das will give up 
and sulkily go back to descaling fish, deeming 
the argument no longer worth the effort; he's 
made his point clear enough for now. But it’s 
certainly not the last time that Das will get 
involved. 


Pausing to make sure Das has returned to 
his fish, the man turns to you with an apologetic 
look, running a hand through his thin hair ner- 
vously, saying: 

Apologies. Das is... well, he doesn't like 


strangers. I’m Gart, the alderman of Spetz. If 
youre wanting it, I have some work for you. 


Gart will instruct the characters to follow 
him, saying he will explain everything he canas 
they walk. Go to Development (The Ousted). 


Development (The Ousted) 


The players are led to the eastern side of the 
village and down a narrow dirt path through 
the trees, whilst Gart regales them with what 
he knows about the situation. He explains 
that there is a family in Spetz who are hav- 
ing trouble with a monster that has been an 
ongoing occurrence for four years; they have 
since taken to calling the monster the Horse 
of Frost. In all that time, no Witchers have 
passed through, so no one knows what to do 
about it. Up until a few weeks ago, the family 
had relied on Arrik, the local pellar, but he 
was killed during a witch hunt by the Order of 
the Flaming Rose, leaving them lost with little 
options. Gart claims to have seen the monster 
himself and describes it as such: 


‘Tis unlike anything I’ve ever seen, a horse’ 
bones wrapped in rags. Its huge eyes glow, and 
its neck...it stretches an’ grows, creeping outta 
the cloth it’s wearing. “Tis a thing of nightmares, 
that’s fer certain. I'll never get used to seeing the 
blasted thing... 


Player characters may recall that Das 
mentioned the monster has only appeared 
in the last six months. If they mention this 
to Gart, he will explain that the monster 
has been appearing for the past four years, 
but its visits have become so frequent now 
that it no longer cares to hide itself from the 
rest of the village; it is becoming bold. For 


the past six months, the Horse of Frost has 
been appearing every night, and the villag- 
ers have finally taken notice of its presence. 
Any players who make Human Perception 
checks to corroborate this will find that the 
alderman is telling the truth, no matter what 
they roll. 


A DC 26 Monster Lore check can be 
made to ascertain what a player character 
knows about this monster (If they succeed, 
refer to the Demonology: The Mari Lwyd 
entry on page 186). A DC 14 Education 
check can also be made to discern the fol- 
lowing information about the Order of the 
Flaming Rose in the box below. 


The Order of the Flaming Rose 


Originally formed in 1268, the Order of the 
Flaming Rose was established to be a count- 
er to the power of the Lodge of Sorceresses. 
It was inspired by the Redanian Intelligence 
Service and built upon the foundations of the 
Order of the White Rose who operated in Te- 
meria. Their leader, Jacques de Aldersberg, 
set about establishing major reforms where 
the now-called Flaming Roses would protect 
the Northerners from monsters and evils, 
ensure humankind’s survival, and establish 
peace when possible, through the teachings of 
the Eternal Fire. 

When Jacques was killed, Siegfried of De- 
nesle was made leader and withdrew the Order 
to Redania where they were sacrificed in the war 
against Nilfgaard and abandoned by King Ra- 
dovid V. Many became part of King Radovid’s 
Witch Hunters, persecuting so-called ‘witches, 
‘freaks, and ‘mutants’ (non-humans). Though 
some smaller branches of the Flaming Rose are 
still in action, working even as far out as Lyria 
and Rivia. 

They are a slowly dying Order, but some hope 
still remains for their survival down in Tous- 
saint, where their ‘noble deeds’ are looked upon 
more favorably. 


Gart will inform players that the fam- 
ily—the Padds—has been steadily ousted 
over the past few years since the Horse of 
Frost’s appearance means they can't leave 
their house. The tensions between them and 
the rest of the village has only intensified, in 
no small part due to Das’ constant outspoken 
behavior. 


The Padds live in a small house set back 
from the rest of the settlement, but that 
doesn't save them from the daily scorn and 
contempt that their neighbors have for them. 
The Padds were once well-liked and social 
people, amicable and friendly. Now, they are 
withdrawn and afraid, mere husks of who 
they once were. Gart expresses his sympathy 
for the family and how he has taken it upon 
himself to ensure they have fresh food, drink, 
and supplies. In particular, he pities their son, 
Orin, who is only five and unable to leave 
the house to play with the other children. He 
shakes his head sadly and says: 


It just ain't right to raise a lad like that. The 
poor thing. 


The players then arrive at the Padd family 
home, sitting alone of the edge of the village. 
Go to Development (Trial, No Errors). 


Development 
(Trial, No Errors) 


The house sits, alone and forlorn, on the 
very edge of the village. An empty chicken 
coop is attached to one side, wood rotten and 
chewed by rodents and damp. The wood and 
kiln brick structure of the small house is drab 
and slick with rainwater. Shutters are pulled 
tight against the windows and the flickering 
of candlelight can be seen through gaps in the 
slats. The air here is eerily still, tense, and a 
feeling like you're being watched settles on you 
all. When Gart raps his knuckles against the 
old wood door and steps back, his knocks might 
as well be explosions for how loud they crack in 
the silence. 


If any players make an Awareness check, 
refer to the Curious Oddities table below for 
what they notice. 


Curious Oddities 
Raa Raa 


Numerous footprints 
are imprinted into the 
dirt around the front of 
the house, some of them 
disappearing around the 
corners, clearly marking 
the whole perimeter. Mixed 
in are the hoof prints of 
a horse. On the doorstep 
is a rotting line of rice, 
soaked by the rain. 


They also notice that the trees 


around the house appear 
disturbed, branches half- 
snapped off and hanging 
limply, others completely 
stripped of their leaves. In 
places, the bark on the trunks 
is missing, peeled off. 


A faint scent, foul and 
lingering in the air; the stench 
of burning sulfur, muted 
slightly by the rain, but 
there. The sounds of nature 
are missing: no birdsong, 
animal sounds, not even the 
movement of the wind. 


After a moment, there is the sound of 
someone moving behind the front door—a 
heavy thud and the rattling click of a lock. The 
door cracks open slightly to reveal a sliver of a 
man’s face, the one eye they can see glaring at 
them as a gruff voice says: 


Who is it? 


Gart seems unphased by this standoffish 
behavior and smiles, though it’s a little strained 
as he replies: 


You know who I am, Clenn. I’ve brought 
some folks who could help ye. 


If any of the player characters are Witch- 
ers or Mages, Gart will specifically point 
them out as people who can help the family. 
Player characters who introduce themselves 
to Clenn will only get a grunt and a scowl in 


Arrik of Scala 


Until his death a few 
weeks prior to the play- 
ers’ arrival, Arrik was an 
elderly human man who 
served as the areas’ local 
pellar, living in the woods 
to the west of Spetz, clos- 
er to the foothills of the 
Craag Ros mountains. 
He was killed by the 
Witch Hunters of the Or- 
der of the Flaming Rose 
for the crime of ‘using 
magic and nefarious and 
malicious sorcery. His 
only real ‘crime’ was the 
time his chicken attacked 
one of Queen Meve' sol- 
diers. He was a harmless, 
though strange, old man. 


A Full Sweep 


If the players want to in- 
vestigate the area around 
the house, refer to the 
Curious Oddities table. 
The only new thing they 
will notice around the 
back of the house is that 
one of the windows no 
longer has shutters at- 
tached to it, the hinges 
broken clean off. 


A Useless 
Precaution 


Lines or circles of rice are 
part of the commoner su- 
perstition that some crea- 
tures, such as demons, 
must pick up and count 
each individual grain be- 
fore they can step past 
it. This belief however is 
founded on nothing sub- 
stantial, and rice affects 
demons like garlic affects 
Higher Vampires—that 
is to say, it does nothing. 
Those who succeed at a 
DC 16 Education or Mon- 
ster Lore check know that 
the rice has no effect. 


The Wand of 
Banishment 


This stick is the pel- 
lar stick and is the only 
item the Padd family has 
that must briefly banish 
the Horse of Frost. This 
wooden stick is reminis- 
cent of a wand and was 
given to the Padds by the 
now-dead_ pellar, Arrik 
of Scala. A strip of dark 
red cloth binds a sprig 
of mistletoe to one end 
and the other has two 
branching twigs sprout- 
ing in opposite direc- 
tions, both capped with 
dull copper. A series of 
runes has been carved 
into the main body of 
the wand. A DC 21 
Magic Training or DC 
25 Education check re- 
veals that these runes are 
a Lucifuge Rofocale (Lu- 
cifuge for short). Refer 
to the sidebar Words of 
Power for information 
on Lucifuge. 


Poor Manners 


If any of the characters 
decide to try to barge 
into the house before 
being touched with the 
stick, they will have to 
get past Clenn by mak- 
ing a DC 12 Physique 
check. He will curse at 
the player(s) the entire 
time and hit at them 
with the wooden stick 
frantically, sheer terror 
on his face until he re- 
alizes that they don’t re- 
act the way he expects 
them to. Upon realizing 
this, he'll stand aside 
and shout for his wife, 
Ena, to let them in and 
only then will the door 
unlock. If any players 


want to try and under- > 


response. The door will open a little further, 
enough to reveal Clenn, but still not enough 
to see into the house: 


Clenn can’t be much older than thirty, but 
the lines on his face are doing him no favors. He 
is pale and drawn, heavy bruises from lack of 
sleep under his restless eyes. His gaze flicks from 
person to person, assessing you all, sizing you 
up. He glances briefly towards the trees, then the 
rotting line of rice along the threshold of his feet. 
He mutters under his breath, running frantic 
fingers through his matted hair: 


More rice. Need more...to fix the lines. 


He begins to close the door again, speaking 
more directly to you all: 


I'll be right out. 


The door closes again. Gart seems unsur- 
prised that Clenn is behaving this way and 
gives the characters a patient smile, saying: 


Best to err on the side of caution when a 
monster's involved, hm? I should've mentioned, 
but Clenn’ll be wanting to test you before he lets 
you in. 


If the characters ask what kind of ‘test’ and 
why, Gart will explain that the Padd family 
are, understandably, terrified that the Horse 
of Frost will somehow manage to get into 
the house. It apparently can take humanoid 
forms and tries to trick the family into letting 
it in. No one knows exactly how it does this, 
but it can also perfectly mimic voices to bol- 
ster the believability of its disguise. Gart says 
rather ominously: 


‘Tis a devious and wicked thing. May the 
gods help us all if you can’t stop it. 


Clenn returns, quickly opening, slipping 
out of, and then hurriedly slamming the door 
shut after him, the sound of the lock turning 
from inside with a heavy clunk. In his hand, 
Clenn is holding a small wooden stick which 
he raises at the player characters threateningly. 
He seems hesitant to step away from the door 
and gestures with his free hand for them to 
approach him, saying: 


We wont be fooled again, you hear? You know 
what this is. You know what it'll do if it touches ye! 


Gart will encourage the players to let Clenn 
touch them with the stick, assuring them they 


have nothing to fear (unless they are the Horse 
of Frost, of course!). Clenn taps each player on 
the cheek with the stick, explaining that it must 
touch bare skin for him to know if the Horse of 
Frost is hiding among them. When he turns to 
Gart, the alderman declines, saying: 


I don't intend to come inside, Clenn. I need 
to have a word with Das....Now that this lot are 
here, I’m sure you can explain everything better 
than I—I only told them what little I know. 


Gart then addresses the players: 


Let me know if you happen to need anythiw 
whilst yer here and I'll see it’s delivered. ‘Tis the 
least I can do. 


He then leaves, bidding a final farewell to 
Clenn who merely nods in acknowledgment, 
still nervous to be letting new people into his 
home. His eyes flick from the players to the trees 
one last time before knocking on the door: 


Ena! Let us in! 


The lock clicks and the door open inwards, 
revealing an  exhausted-looking young 
woman—Ena. She looks at the stick in Clenn’s 
hand before nodding and stepping aside. 


Ena is just as harrowed as her husband, 
Clenn. Dark circles frame her eyes, and her 
blonde hair is pulled up in a messy bun, scraggly 
and straw-like on her head. Her skin is washed 
out, her lips thin and firmly pressed in a hard 
line, and her hands pull restlessly at the bodice of 
her dress, worrying at the fabric over and over. 
She stares at you all as you enter, saying nothing, 
but her expression is haunted. She is afraid. 


Go to Development (A Broken Home). 


Development 
(A Broken Home) 


The players are now inside the Padds’ 
home; though perhaps ‘home’ is too kind a 
word for it. It was clearly a home once, but 
there is no longer any warmth to it. It lacks life. 
It isn't welcoming. 


You are brought into the main living area of 
the house. A stove sits against the far wall next 
to a dirtied window with no shutters on its outer 
side, giving a murky view of clustered pine trees 
and churned up, muddy grass. The room veers 


off to the right into a small area where two sin- 
gle beds are snugly pushed up to the wall, straw- 
stuffed mattresses stained and covered with 
threadbare sheets. A closed door on the opposite 
wall across leads to another room. 


A back door on the far side, close to the beds, 
is clearly locked, the bolt closed, and a wooden 
beam fixed across, held in place by a bracket 
on either side of the door frame. Scratches litter 


both the beam and wood around the door han- 
dle and bolt—as if something tried desperately 
to get out. 


Player characters can make an Awareness 
check to see what else they notice upon enter- 
ing the house. Refer to the Beneath the Sur- 
face table below for the result. There is defi- 
nitely something wrong here. 


Beneath the Surface 


a 


There are scratch marks not only around the back door, but the front door, too, all 
varying in age. Some are older, faded into the grain of the wood, whereas others are 
new, small splinters and slivers of wood torn up around the side of the grooves. 
A DC 14 Deduction or DC 12 Survival check determines that these scratches 
were not made by an animal, but a person. Asking Ena or Clenn about these 
marks reveals that their son, Orin, makes these during his escape attempts. 


Fragments of a broken clay bottle have been hastily gathered into a small wicker 
basket along with the shards of a shattered plate. On the wall, by one of the beds, is 
a dent marked by a dark, fresh stain. The tart smell of Rivian Kriek hangs in the air. 
Something, or someone, threw the bottle of alcohol at the wall with considerable force. 
Asking Ena or Clenn about this reveals nothing; neither of them wanting to talk 
about it. The most the players get out of them is that it was ‘an accident’. A DC 10 
Human Perception check reveals that this is obviously a lie and a sensitive topic. 


The window by the stove is not only dirtied but cracked. A fine split splays up the bottom half of 
the pane, branching out in all directions. Mostly obscured by layers of grime, small hand prints 
are smudged up the glass from the inside, as though someone frantically pawed at it to get out. 
Again, if the players ask Ena or Clenn about this, they learn that 
this was another one of Orin’s escape attempts. 


Clenn will introduce the players to his wife and then move to the stove, throwing another piece 
of wood onto the fire and telling Ena to show the players their son. If the player characters want to 
speak more with Ena and Clenn, refer to the Current Understanding table below. 


Current Understanding—Clenn & Ena Padd 


Both Clenn and Ena are reluctant to admit the Horse of Frost is a demon as this would 
lead to the discovery that they summoned it using a tome they stole from Arrik, the 
Pellar. Since the summoning they’ve burned the book and thus they can’t find out the 
Demon's true name, which is why they've taken to calling it the Horse of Frost. 
Every time the demon appears, their son, Orin, begins to act strangely; overcome with 


a frantic need to get outside and tries to escape the house to join the demon. 

The demon can look humanoid and can mimic people's voices perfectly. It has almost caught them off 
guard a few times using this technique. As a result, they are suspicious of anyone outside the house. 
This has been happening for the past four years. In the beginning, the demon would only appear 
once a month, then it became fortnightly, then weekly, leading up to now with its nightly visits. 
The pellar originally took pity on them and made them the wand of banishment but 
now that he is dead, they can barely sleep out of fear and are desperate for any help. 


Go to Development (Marked). 


> stand Clenn’s intentions 


with this stick when ini- 
tially faced with it, a DC 
12 Human Perception 
check reveals that he 
doesn't seem to want to 
hurt them. Instead, he is 
clearly anticipating some 
sort of reaction from the 
characters, but they can’t 
discern exactly what re- 
action he’s expecting. 


Words of Power 


In the world of The 
Witcher, words hold 
great power. They can 
curse people, manipu- 
late Chaos, and could 
bind certain monsters. 
Regarding demons, the 
words used to hold some 
sway over them are their 
true names. This doesn't 
give a person full control 
of the demon, but names 
can be weaponized into 
items such as wands to 
temporarily banish them 
for a short amount of 
time. Even then, a de- 
mons name can only 
be used in this manner 
a few times before they 
become immune to it. 
The true name of a de- 
mon when written down 
is called a Lucifuge Ro- 
focale, a ‘signature. Lu- 
cifuge can also be used 
by a demon itself to lay 
a claim on a creature or 
to signify a pact. These 
signatures are typically 
left on a visible area of 
the body and are of sig- 
nificant size, serving to 
remind the creature of 
what they now belong to. 


A Rivian Staple 


Rivia is also known for 
its famous Rivian Kriek, 
a cheap beer brewed and 
made from cherries. It’s 
very popular among 
both locals and visitors 
to the region. 


Leaving 
the House 


Characters can leave 
the house at any time 
but will be subjected 
to the pellar stick test 
every time they return 
to prove they aren't the 
Horse of Frost. 


Clenn and Ena Padd are both human 


adults and their son, Orin, is currently in his 
room; his parents keep him there most of the 
time ‘for his own safety’. Once everyone is 
inside, Clenn locks the door behind him and 
places a wooden beam across to keep it barri- 
caded shut. The bolt slides across with a heavy 
thunk. Everyone is locked in. 


Development (Marked) 


Having met and spoken with Clenn and Ena, 
Ena will show the players to her son’s room 
which is across from the two beds by the back 
door. It is plain and simply furnished. 


A small bed is pushed up against one wall, 
the sheets rumpled, and a crude-looking doll sits 
propped against the pillow, dead, carved eyes 
staring ahead blankly. A few candles burn in 
their holders, bathing everything in a sickly yel- 
low light as it strikes you that there are no win- 
dows in this room. It’ clear there was one once, 
but it has been firmly boarded up, the wooden 
panels barely offering a glimpse of the outside 
world through the thin gaps between them. 


Sat with his back facing you all is a young 
boy, cross-legged and playing with an assort- 
ment of animals carved from wood. He doesn't 
seem to be aware of you all or, if he is, he sim- 
ply doesn’t care enough to turn around. After a 
moment of awkward silence, Ena says: 


Orin, dear, we have guests. 


Orin will turn at his mother’s insistence 
and the characters will see that the boy’s right 
cheek is marked by a large, deep scar of lines 
and shapes. He doesn't seem bothered by it, 
and stares at the player characters with pale 
blue eyes, assessing them. 


Orin is a quiet child; he can talk, but pre- 
fers his own company, talking quietly to him- 
self whilst he plays with his toys. He is nervous 
around the player characters, unused to seeing 
new faces and becomes increasingly anxious 
whenever he is forced to leave his room. 


He is clearly very fond of his mother 
and seeks her affection, but he is reluctant 
to interact much with his father, Clenn— 
always being very careful around him. Clenn 
is quick to anger at his son’s behavior, not 
tolerating Orin’s escape attempts despite 
knowing it isn’t the boy’s fault. He often 
orders Orin about, raising his voice if his son 
disobeys him in any way. It’s unsurprising 
that Orin prefers his mother who is always 
kind and patient with him; she often refers 
to him as her ‘perfect little boy’. 


If player characters investigate Orin’s 
room, they make an Awareness check, com- 
paring their roll to the Lonesome Room table 
below. If they ask about Orin’s facial scar, 
refer to the sidebar A Growing Concern. 


Lonesome Room 


There are scratches on the boarded-up window made by human hands. 
These are more recent than those over the doors in the main house. 


A broken toy catches your attention. The head has been snapped off a 
little wooden horse and placed on top of a small chest, angled so that it 
is looking directly at Orin’s bed with its hollow, black-painted eyes. 


There are faint drawings made along the bottom of one wall, 
scratched into the wood and then stained with soot gathered from 
the stove; the ashes in an old clay bowl nearby on the floor. 
The drawings are crude—clearly a child’s attempt—and depict 
various little scenarios. One is of Clenn and Ena smiling, with 
a smaller Orin stood between them. Others are of animals: 
dogs, rabbits, chickens, all disproportionate and wonky. 
At the farthest corner of the wall is a drawing of Orin smiling as he sits riding a 
black horse. The horse is also smiling, a large lopsided grin with too many teeth. 


If player characters want to spend time talking with Orin, 
refer to the Current Understanding table below. Orin will 
refuse to talk with them if his mother isn’t in the room with 
him or if his father is in the room. If Clenn is in the room 
and is asked to leave so they can speak to Orin, he will go but 
noticeably clenches his hands into fists and tenses his jaw 
with a scowl. 


Current Understanding - Orin Padd 


¢ Orin understands that his parents don't allow him to 
go outside and it’s dangerous out there for him. Hed 
still like to play outside, of course, but at least inside the 
house he has his toy animals to play with. 


¢ He loves both his mother and father, but sometimes 
Clenn gets angry, and Orin doesn't know why, “He 
shouts at me, and ma cries. I don’t like it when she 
does that.” 


¢ Sometimes, Orin can’t remember things. He gets 
‘big spaces’ where memories should be. The most 
recent example of this is last night - he was eating 
dinner and felt dizzy, then he was suddenly being 
held by his mother whilst she sobbed, and his father 
yelled. Orin will show his hands to the players, the 
skin of his palms littered with cuts and scrapes 
because he woke up with splinters in his hands. He 
doesn't know what happened and his mother says it’s 
because he’s unwell. 


« A DC 12 Deduction check reveals that the splinters 
must be from Orin scratching at the doors whenever 
he tries to escape. 


¢ If asked about the drawing of the horse on his bed- 
room wall, he'll simply shrug and say, “I just like 
horses.” 


Dreary afternoon bleeds into early evening, and the play- 
ers are invited to eat with the Padds. They explain that the 
alderman, Gart, leaves them food and supplies on their 
doorstep as it’s unsafe for them to go outside; the Horse of 
Frost could appear at any moment. 


Clenn and Ena know that they are resented by the rest 
of the village. Whereas Clenn couldn't care less “what them 
lot think”, Ena is extremely upset that her social reputation 
has suffered. It frustrates her that she can't go outside and is 
now seen as an undesirable because of the demon. Refer to 
Clenn and Ena’s individual Personality tables for inspira- 
tion on how to roleplay both characters. 


A Growing 
Concern 


Orin’s scar has been there 
since he was born. Ini- 
tially, it was a faint red 
patch, a little darker than 
his fair complexion, and 
his parents believed it 
was a birthmark. How- 
ever, with every passing 
month, it grew bigger— 
no longer a blemish, but 
a deep mark that cut into 
his cheek and scarred 
over. Now it’s a deep, 
dark red. It still spreads, 
new lines and shapes 
beginning to emerge on 
the skin about his eye- 
brow. It doesn’t seem to 
be hurting Orin and, if 
asked, he will tell them 
that it is painless. How- 
ever, Orin will remark 
that he doesn't like how 
his father looks at it 
sometimes; it makes him 
feel uncomfortable and 
afraid. A DC 12 Educa- 
tion or DC 10 First Aid 
check reveals that the 
scar’s appearance is like 
that of a brand. 


Clenn Padd—Personality 


¢ Clenn holds little regard for the opinion of the villagers, though he is troubled that it may 
become a problem for his wife and son soon; he is aware the tension in the village is going to 
snap eventually, and he doesn't want his family to get hurt or, even worse, killed. 

¢ His usual reaction whenever faced with a stressful situation is to lose his temper, becoming 
irate. Whenever Orin has one of his escape attempts, Clenn loses all sense of rationality. He 
knows and understands that Orin’s behavior is caused by the demon—the pellar having told 


him and Ena so—but he cant control himself. 


« Ena is also subjected to Clenn’s foul temper, but Orin is often the fixation of his mood. As a 
result, Orin talks to him very little, and this only serves to frustrate Clenn even more. 


Ena Padd—Personality 


¢ Ena clearly cares more about her image than Clenn does and, though she adores her son, she 
is at heart a selfish woman. She speaks about the whole situation in terms of herself first and 
foremost, only adding how it affects Clenn and Orin as though they’re mere afterthoughts. 

« She is somewhat eager to finally have new people to talk to and comes across as clingy. 
Understandable, however, given her predicament of isolation. 

¢ Her relationship with Clenn blows hot and cold sporadically. Sometimes they can be having a 
quiet, genuine conversation, and at others can be shouting and at each other’s throats. 


Once the player characters have finished 
getting to know the Padds and inspect their 
house, it has started to grow late. Go to Devel- 
opment (The Uninvited Guest). 


Development 
(The Uninvited Guest) 


Dinner is a simple affair of stew and cheap ale. 
Clenn says that as there is no inn in Spetz, the 
players are welcome to spend the night in their 
home so he and Ena can be sure that the mon- 
ster can't pretend to be any of them to trick 
them into opening the door and inviting it in. 
The players will have to sleep on the floor, but 
Ena will provide fur throws, sheepskins, and 
blankets for warmth. 


If players choose to spend the night outside 
the house, go to the Outside the Home sec- 
tion. For players who choose to stay inside, go 
to the Inside the Home section. 


Inside the Home 


As the night grows ever closer, Clenn tells the 
players that no matter what they hear from 
outside the house, they cannot open the door 
to let anyone in, even if they think it’s their 


friend(s). Ena makes it clear just how far the 
demon will go to get their attention: 


It doesn't matter if you hear someone 
screamin bloody murder out there. Do not open 
the door. Do not let anyone in. 


Most concerning, after Ena has tucked 
Orin in for the night, she shuts his bedroom 
door and locks it, rattling the handle a few 
times to be sure. She is visibly upset and 
Clenn explains: 


Don't you let the boy out neither. The 
demon, it...bewitches ‘im somehow. No matter 
how much he screams, ignore ‘im. It’s for his 
own good. 


Ena doesn't say anything, but it’s clear that 
it pains her to lock her son up like he’s an 
animal. Player characters who ask why Orin 
is locked up, refer to Clenn and Ena’ Cur- 
rent Understanding table, specifically Orin’s 
escape attempts. 


Eventually, Clenn and Ena retire to their 
beds, but it doesn’t look like they'll get much 
sleep. Though lying down, they are still both 
wide awake and the house becomes tense; as 
though holding its breath—waiting for some- 
thing to happen. 


Player characters can keep watch through Players make an Awareness check, referring 
the night and can do so in two ways: listen- to the Lookout Table below. Players who roll 
ing out for sounds, or by taking a post at the _ higher can alert others to what they have seen 
only shutter-less window next to the stove. or heard if others roll lower. 


Lookout Table 


The rain has stopped, and the wind has died down. Somewhere nearby an 
owl calls out into the night. All is relatively still, but it’s not entirely unusual 
for a small village out by the mountains. Nothing but the fog-shrouded 
woods and the night sky beyond can be seen out of the window. 


A soft, persistent clicking can be heard coming from outside, somewhere 
amongst the surrounding trees — like striking two stones together. Every 
now and then, something clatters distantly, the sound like bone dice 
tumbling onto a table. Out of the window, a shadow moves among the trees, 
never still long enough to assume a shape that is recognizable to you. 


There has been an odd noise growing the past few hours; the sound of 
mice or perhaps a rat or two gnawing at the walls. It’s not an entirely 
uncommon sound—vermin will always be a problem, wherever 
you go. But now it has taken on a more menacing quality. 

Now it sounds like a dog’s teeth rasping down bone, like a blade cutting 
into gristle. The sound has not become louder exactly, just more intense, 
making your hair stand on end and your skin crawl against your will. 
Outside, the pale moonlight offers the briefest of glances of the moving 
shadow in the tree line. Glimpses of chalk white bone can be seen every 
now and then, appearing in the gaps between leaves and branches. 


The temperature has shifted minutely, gradually getting colder and 
colder. Though the fire still burning in the stove has staved off the 
worst of the chill, frost creeps up the shudders of the window. 
Outside, the shuffling mass of shadow has stopped, deathly still. It is 
shapeless, not truly committing to a form. Sometimes it looks almost 
humanoid and at others like a monstrous beast slinking through the trees. 


Go to section Voices of the Damned. 


The Mari Lwyd’s Game 
The Mari Lwyd currently stalking the Pad family has been doing so for so long that it’s 
lost interest in the family and is now seeking only to get what it considers fair payment. 
Typically, when a Mari Lwyd first returns for payment, it begin with a game of terror 
in which the demon rasps its bony hands along the walls, doors, and windows of the 


debtor's home and sings to them in a chorus of eerie discordant voices. These songs 
vary from one Mari Lwyd to another but they are always understandable to all listeners 
and always incorporate a plea to the listener to let them in some way. Mari Lwyd are 
patient demons and will sing throughout the entire night, often changing the lyrics 
of their song as the night wears on to be more ominous or outright threatening. 


Using Players to 
Your Advantage 


The Horse of Frost can 
mimic the voice of any 
person they have heard 
speak and you, as GM, 
can use this ability to 
affect your characters 
and their experience in a 
session. If any players or 
NPCs have gone outside 
to sit watch, have the de- 
mon mimic their voice, 
trying to coax the other 
players into opening the 
door. Additionally, the 
mari lwyd can mimic the 
voices of any character 
in the village of Spetz in- 
cluding Das and Gart. 


The Final Charge 


If the final charge of 
magic in the pellar stick 
is used up, the Horse 
of Frost disappears in a 
whirling flurry of snow 
and a rasping sigh, like 
a death rattle. No longer 
imbued with magic, the 
pellar stick vanishes too, 
crumbling into a fine 
gray ash that is carried 
off by the breeze con- 
jured by the demon’s de- 
parture. 


Voices of the Damned 


A hush suddenly falls over the house, and a 
mounting tension rises in the air—so thick you 
could cut it with a sword. The Horse of Frost 
is finally here... 


Abrupt movement in the tree line brings your 
attention to the window, white frost framing the 
edges of the pane. There is a knock at the front 
door. Then a knock on the back door. A knock up 
on the roof. A chorus of voices from all around 
the house speak as one: 


Let me in... Let me in... Let me in. 


Clenn sits up on his bed and hugs his knees 
to his chest. His face is grim. Ena turns onto 
her other side to face the wall, sobbing quietly. 
The knocking continues, jumping from place 
to place, wall to wall, all around the house. The 
voices continue to hiss, whisper, and moan—a 
haunting chorus. 


Go to section Face to Face for the demon’s 
description. 


Outside the Home 

Players who choose to stay outside are locked 

out by Clenn who says before closing door: 
You stay outside until morning. I don't care 

how much ye scream an’ beg, you ain't coming 

back in ‘til then. May the gods watch over ye. 


He will, however, give them the pellar 
stick, telling them that if they touch the 
demon with it, it will banish it for a short 
while. He will warn them that the stick only 
has one more use left in it so the player 
characters should only use it when abso- 
lutely necessary. Door slamming shut, all 
player characters outside hear the lock click, 
the bolt slide home, and the wooden beam 
thunk into place. They are now all alone out 
in the cold, waiting until the demon shows 
itself. 


Go to section Searching the Woods. 


Searching the Woods 


Player characters may choose to search the 
woods surrounding the house, looking for 
signs of the demon. Awareness or Wilderness 
Survival checks can be made, referring to the 
results on the Signs Table below. Players who 
roll higher can alert other players to their find- 
ings if the others roll lower. 


During this time, the player characters 
outside the house have no idea what is hap- 
pening inside. They don't hear or see anything 
affecting any player characters who remained 
inside the house. 


Signs Table 


[= Se 


The rain has stopped, and the wind has calmed. An owl calls out, lonesome. Fog has 
started to rise from the damp ground, coiling up around you. The shuffling of small 
critters in the underbrush are the only disturbances in an otherwise still night. 


A soft clicking disturbs the peace, getting steadily louder and louder. 
Something stumbles in the foliage, sounding like an animal suddenly 
spooked. A few hoof prints appear in the mud, but no creature to match. 
Every couple of minutes a loud crack rends the air, sounding as though it’s 
coming from everywhere at once; there’s no discernible direction or source. 


Something shuffles through the trees all around, the sound of bones crunching 
and heavy, rasped breathing. Whenever you turn to look at it, it suddenly appears 
somewhere else, loping through the trees to the tune of cracking bones and clicking 
teeth. Through the leaves and branches, flashes of pale, white bone can be seen. 


Steadily, the temperature outside has become colder and colder. Your every breath 
perspires in a huff of white, the grass becomes stiff with frost beneath your feet. 
A whining, reedy sound spills out from the trees, everywhere and nowhere all at 

once, making your skin crawl against your will. A jingle of bells shudders in the air. 


Go to section It Follows. 


It Follows 


A hush suddenly falls over the woods, the air 
tense and still. Waiting. The Horse of Frost 
is here... 


A crack of bone, a rattle of tarnished bells, 
a huff of icy breath. The ground is frozen solid, 
the trees shudder, branches shedding dried out 
leaves and trunks peeling fractured bark. A 
knock from up in the canopy above. A knock 
from deep within the ground. Bones rapping 
against wood. Hissing voices rise from the ether: 


Let me in... Let me in... Let me in... 


Go to section Face to Face for the demon’s 
description. 


Face to Face 
Whether inside or outside, the player charac- 
ters will all see the following happening: 

It appears slowly, looming out of the fog. The 
crack of bones and popping joints announce 


its arrival. A horse’s skull—clay beads looping 
around its hanging jaw, withered branches pro- 
truding from hollow orifices, and a pair of glow- 
ing white eyes bulge from its sockets. It chatters 
its teeth loudly. 


‘Then you see its neck. 


Impossibly long, a stretch of vertebrae dis- 
appears into the tree line, smothered by foli- 
age and fog. Brief glimpses of it can be seen 
constricting around a trunk, slithering over 
branches, an endless coil of old bones. Tar- 
nished bells and rotten fabric clings along the 
length of it, jingling and fluttering as it stretches 
out, further and further. 

Though it has no lungs, it huffs wisps of con- 
densation out of its nasal cavity. The grass below 
it has frosted over entirely, green blades turned 
white and gray. Trees closest to where its neck 
protrudes from seemingly wilt, bark peeling and 
pine needles dying as it opens its mouth and 
speak with a hundred voices: 


Let me in. 


Attacking the Demon 
If any player characters who are outside the house want to attack the demon, refer to the 
Mari Lwyd stats on page 206. Should they succeed in killing the demon, go to Ending (And 
They Lived Ever After). If the player characters use the pellar stick and banish the demon 
or the demon otherwise escapes, they have two options. They can choose to stay and see 
if the demon comes back or leave Spetz and claim the job as done. If they choose to stay, 
continue the adventure as normal. If they choose to leave Spetz, go to Ending (Peace For 
Now). If they die when confronting the demon at this point, go to Ending (Cold and Alone). 


An Eerie Encounter 
If some or all the players are outside the house and decide to keep watch of the demon, 
they find that the monster isn’t aggressive and doesn’t attack them. Instead, it seems 


transfixed by the house and the one window without shutters, staring inside. The voices, 
knocking and strange sounds are still present the entire time the demon is present. 
The demon will remain watching the house and ask to be let in until 
dawn, at which point it fades and vanishes into the ether. 


Waiting it Out 
If they are inside the house, they know that they are unable to leave until the 
morning. Again, Clenn will assure them that the demon can‘ enter the house unless 
it’s invited in. If they stay in the house, it will eventually leave come dawn. 
Ignoring the monster is easier said than done voices, knocking, and 
unnatural sounds continue through the night without pause. 
Eventually the demon will fade and vanish at dawn. 


So long as the player characters don’t attack the demon, go to Development (New Leads). 


Impossibly Long 


Any characters who 
decide to follow the de- 
mon’s long neck into the 
trees, they find that it is 
endless. This monster's 
neck has wrapped and 
coiled itself around every 
available tree, creating a 
dizzying web of bones, 
bells, and frayed cloth. 
No matter how hard the 
characters look for the 
end of the demon’ neck, 
they cannot find it. 


Getting Back In 


If characters spent the 
night outside and didn't 
use the pellar stick, then 
Clenn will use it to test 
the players again when 
they are let back in come 
morning. If the charac- 
ters did use the pellar 
stick during the night, 
Clenn will let the players 
back in regardless and 
tell the players that the 
demon will be banished 
until nightfall, so he is 
certain none of the play- 
ers are it in disguise. 


Development (New Leads) 


As dawn comes and the first few rays of light 
breach the horizon, the Horse of Frost fades 
into the ether and vanishes from sight. Orin 
has fallen silent in his room and Ena has 
already unlocked the door to gather him in 
her arms, huddled on the bed with him as she 
kisses the top of his head and strokes his hair. 
The boy seems exhausted and confused but 
is happy to be held in his mother’s embrace, 
already falling asleep. 


A DC 12 Awareness check reveals that 
Orin’s palms and fingers are raw and red from 
spending the night pawing relentlessly at the 
door and window boards in his room. A further 
DC 10 First Aid or Healing Hands check can 
be made to help take care of his injuries. Ena 
will not stop anyone wanting to help and wel- 
comes it. She doesn’t let go of Orin once, mur- 
muring reassurances that he is her ‘perfect boy’ 
and that ‘everything will be okay’ 


Clenn avoids his son and sits on the edge 
of his own bed, a scowl on his face. If asked 
what's wrong, he'll gruffly snap “Nothing.” and 
rub both hands down his face—an obvious lie. 
He looks beyond exhausted and says: 


Well... now you see what we're dealin’ with. 


If they require a recap, refer to their Cur- 
rent Understanding table in Development 
(A Broken Home). Frustrated, Clenn will 
curse angrily: 

If it weren't for them gods-damned Witch 
Hunters killiw’ Arrik... 


With Clenn too angry to hold much of a 
conversation without losing his temper, Ena— 
still sitting with Orin—will explain that Arrik 
was the local pellar and the only other person 
able to help them with the demon (Gart being 
the other). Arrik knew more about the demon 
than anyone else and used what hed learned 
to create the wand of banishment. The Witch 
Hunters of the Order of the Flaming Rose 
killed him for ‘crimes of sorcery’—a fact Ena 
scoffs at, saying: 


They treated him like he was some kind of 
Mage. He just helped people, that’s what he liked 
tdo. That ain’t a crime. 

Arrik didnt tell Clenn and Ena much about 
the Horse of Frost other than it had somehow 


attached itself to their son; hence the mark on 
Orin’s face—and that a wand of banishment was 
needed to help keep the family safe and buy him 
more time to gather information and research. If 
the player characters ask for more information 
on Arrik, refer to The Pellar in the Woods box. 


Pellar in the Woods 


Arrik of Scala lived in the woods in a hut 
located to the northwest of the Padds’ house, 
down a small dirt trail through the surrounding 
trees. It was ransacked during Arrik’s arrest and 
following execution, but it’s still standing. The 
player characters can go and investigate to see if 
anything of worth remains that could help them 
understand the Horse of Frost better; Arrik was 
researching the demon after all. 


Clenn and Ena would have gone to look 
themselves, but they, of course, can’t go outside. 
No one else in the village would go and check, 
believing it to be a cursed place as the Order 
deemed it the home of an ‘evil Sorcerer’. Even 
Gart refused to go near it out of fear. 


Both Clenn and Ena firmly believe that there 
must be something left behind that can help them 
learn more about the Horse of Frost and will 
encourage the players if they show an interest in 
going there. If player characters don't seem to be 
interested, Ena will briefly pull them aside and 
implore them to check and see if anything Arrik 
was working on survived; both her and Clenn are 
desperate (even if Clenn won't admit it). 


If they decide to investigate the pellar’s hut, 
go to Development (A Ransacked Home). 


They may decide also to investigate the 
village and talk with the villagers for poten- 
tial further information. Go to Development 
(Trouble Brewing). 


Development 
(A Ransacked Home) 


The dirt trail to the northwest of the Padds’ 
house leads to a derelict hut in a small clear- 
ing, surrounded by trees. A small brook runs 
briefly down the far side of the house before 
curving back into the woods and vanishing 
amongst the foliage. 


‘The building has clearly been ransacked; the front door ripped 
off its hinges and in pieces on the damp grass. Windows are 
smashed in, glass fragments jutting up from the frames like teeth. 
A scorched patch of ground scattered with debris next to an old 
chicken coop that has been pushed over and destroyed; wood and 
rotten seed thrown everywhere. From what little you can see into 
the house, the interior is just as bad, furniture tipped and broken. 


Investigating the Exterior 

From the description above, there are a few areas outside 
the hut for players to investigate. Refer to the Areas of Inter- 
est table below for descriptions of specific areas players can 


look closer at. 


Areas of Interest 


Brook 


A vein of running water trickles past the far side of the house before curving away and 
into the surrounding woods. An empty pail lies on its side in the grass nearby. A DC 
10 Deduction check reveals this brook was used as the pellar’s water source. 

A few small animal bones have been deliberately placed in a line along the embankment: jaw bones, teeth, bird 
skulls, and ribs. A DC 14 Deduction or DC 10 Education check reveals that these bones were likely harvested 
from naturally-dead animal carcasses to be cleaned and used in soothsaying and other such rituals typically 
carried out by pellars. A further DC 14 Wilderness Survival check tells the players that these bones have been 

here for weeks and were likely left when the pellar was disturbed and detained by the Order of the Flaming Rose. | 


| Chicken ; 


| Coop 


The remains of a chicken coop and pen lay scattered on the ground in front of the house. The 

coop is in pieces, wooden slats broken and splintered, and the pen has been uprooted out of 
the dirt in places. Rotten seed is tossed all over. There are no chickens in sight; most likely, they 
were either taken by the Order of the Flaming Rose or eaten by wolves or wild dogs. 


| 


Scorched | 
Ground 


A few meters away from the destroyed coop is a patch of ground that has been scorched, the grass burned 
away, and the soil blackened. A cluster of debris lies in the middle of it and players can make a DC 14 
Deduction or DC 12 Wilderness Survival check to determine the following items in the debris: ashes, 
| the charred remains of a wooden pole, and human bone fragments. Someone—the pellar—was burned 
| here: tied to a stake and set alight. A DC 12 Education check determines that this style of execution is 
popular among groups affiliated with or founded upon the teachings of the Church of the Eternal Fire. 


Inside the Hut 


The interior of the hut is in shambles but is still traversable 


for players to investigate. Read aloud: 


Pieces of broken furniture are tossed about the floor of the 
derelict hut, mixed in amongst fragments of shattered pots and 
glass bottles. Dried herbs and plants still cling to the beams above 
alongside talismans of shaped metal, stones, and animal bones 
that rattle as you pass under them. The Order of the Flaming 
Rose were ruthless in their vandalism, having pulled everything 
off shelves, breaking everything in their path. But maybe there's 


something salvageable in all this. 


Players investigating the hut make an Awareness check, 


comparing their roll to the Investigation table below. 


Investigation 
Prot [Rew 


Pieces of tattered parchment lies under 
broken furniture. Writing in Nordling 
is scrawled across the pages in hastily 
scratched handwriting and the parchment 
itself is crumpled and littered with holes, 
some of them chewing so far into the paper 
that parts of words are completely lost. A 
further DC 12 Deduction check reveals 
that this damage was caused by a bird’s 
beak—specifically, that of a chicken. 


Trapped in the cracked slats of a small, 

upturned wooden chest is a scroll tied 

with a thin leather tie. Written neatly in 

Nordling is a Novice Armor Diagram 
of your—the GM’s—choosing. 


One floorboard sits up slightly from the 
rest, jostled out of place. Underneath is a 
small stone wrapped in a scrap of cloth. 
A DC 16 Education, DC 14 Alchemy 
or DC 14 Ritual Crafting check reveals 
that this is a Lesser Svarog Rune. 


The parchment in the pellar’s hut provides information 
on the pellar’s studies and lore on both Goetia and the 
Horse of Frost, but the damage the papers have taken has 
caused some of it to become permanently lost. The infor- 
mation has been summarized in the following boxes for 


you, the GM. 


Goetia is a the highly volatile magical art of demon 
summoning. This page details the partial instructions 
for a ritual, detailing crafting components. Players 
make a DC 16 Education or DC 14 Ritual Casting 
or Magical Training check to know that these are the 
elements required to craft a pellar stick. They learn that 
the stick’s actual name is a Wand of Banishment. 
Demon summoning is its own path of magic that is learned 
steadily over time by piecing information together, but there 
is no guarantee that it will work or be safe. Often, it is lethal 
regardless of whether the binding process was successful. 
Scrawled in the margin of one page is a note that reads: 
Clenn? Or Ena? 

It is evident that the pellar was researching into 
the Horse of Frost’s true name. From Handout 
3, it’s clear that Arrik must have found something 
of interest—a demon called the Mari Lwyd. 


This scrap of paper appears to have originally been 
part of a diary or journal kept by Arrik. It describes 
his work with Clenn and Ena and a ‘problenY they 
were having. Arrik expresses a frustration that Clenn 
and Ena ignored his warnings and stole a dangerous 
tome that he had intended to keep locked away. 

Arrik also notes that there is something wrong with Orin, 
noting that he never cried, gurgled, or made any typical 
baby sounds when he was born. As a baby, Orin most lay 
still and silent, watching everything and everyone—like it 
somehow knew something that Arrik didn't. The journal also 
documents Arrik’s desire to help the family fix their mistake 
however long it may take. This page was dated 5 years prior. 


Demonology: The Mari Lwyd 


The Mari Lwyd deals in exchanges. To get something from 
it, the summoner(s) must offer something in return. This 
demon prefers to loan out things as part of its agreement; 

any knowledgeable summoner (of which there are very 
few) knows that they must be very specific in detailing how 
long the Mari Lwyd loans out something, otherwise the 
demon is well within its right to reclaim it at any time. 
It is an intelligent demon, always assessing and 
learning the behaviors of the creatures around it, 
able to mimic voices perfectly and steals and wears 


the skin of another being. To take a person’s skin and 
their form, the Mari Lwyd must kill them first. 


Development 
(Trouble Brewing) 


Characters can go into the village of Spetz, 
looking to talk to some of the inhabitants and 
see if they can glean any additional informa- 
tion. Refer to the Rumor Table for what they 
discover. 


Apparently, Gart has spoken to the rest of 
the village on the characters’ behalf, lessening 
their suspicions somewhat; they understand 
now that the characters are here to try and get 
rid of the Horse of Frost. However, this has 
done nothing to ease everyone's hatred of the 
Padds; if anything, the players’ presence has 
only confirmed to the village that the family 
are indeed cursed and has created even more 
resentment. 


Rumor Table - Spetz 


The Midwife 


Vel is the local midwife whose mother helped deliver Orin five years ago. 


Though Vel’s mother died a year after Orin’s birth, Vel is insistent that 
her mother told her about the child; how he was born ‘sickly’ and ‘lame’ 
and that he surely wouldn't live much longer than a month. Her mother 
asked her to keep this information a secret, but if it can help prove the 
Padds are cursed, Vel is more than happy to tell the player characters. 
For five years, Vel assumed the Padds simply were lucky; perhaps 
her mother had misdiagnosed Orin, or he had managed to thrive 
through the care of two loving parents? However, over the past 
month, Vel has started to suspect that perhaps the monster's 
presence has something to do with Orin’s miraculous recovery. 


The ‘Perfect’ 
Family 


Darrik, a local hunter, usually takes the dirt trail leading past the 
Padds’ house but has since stopped. He overheard disturbances before 


changing his hunting grounds. He could never make out just what the 

voices were saying, but he often heard a man and a woman screaming 
at one another—blaming each other for something. He frequently 
heard shouts of ‘It’s all your damned fault!’ followed by expletives, 
thuds, and smashing glass. Sometimes, he caught a child crying too. 


The Leader 


Gart is clearly losing his authority over the village despite his position 
as alderman. Instead, Das and his angry tirades against the Padds 
are being listened to; public opinion swaying in his favor. 
Tensions are rising high, and folks are demanding that the 
monster be dealt with once and for all. They think that Gart 
has protected the Padds for long enough now; nothing will 
change unless they take matters into their own hands. 


Katarina the Speckled Hen 
Those players who choose to interact the speckled white chicken roaming Arrik’s hut 
may be surprised to find the hen is very friendly. Though it’s unlikely that anyone 
would know this now that Arrik is dead, the chicken is named Katarina and she 
will respond instantly to that name. Arrik raised Katarina from an egg and taught 
her a number of simple tricks which she can still perform on command. As long 
as the players treat her well and provide her with food, Katarina will follow them 
dutifully, occasionally fetching small objects in hopes of getting treats in return. 


Arrik’s 
Companion 


Arrik was fond of ani- 
mals and owned quite 
a few—the Order of the 
Flaming Rose during the 
ransacking and execu- 
tion took many of them. 
However, one chicken 
managed to evade cap- 
ture and roams the ru- 
ined hut, scavenging 
and destroying pieces of 
furniture and pages torn 
from books. Players will 
notice this chicken is 
tame and can choose to 
befriend it; no characters 
need to make checks. 
If they kill the chicken, 
they do so without roll- 
ing and gain 1d6 chicken 
meat to put in their in- 
ventory. 


Boxed In 


Das is so ignorant and 
set in his hateful ways 
that he refuses to see 
sense, even when evi- 
dence to the contrary 
is presented to him. If 
it doesn't fit his world- 
view, then he doesn't 
accept or acknowledge 
it. He will ‘corner’ char- 
acters with this behavior. 
They should now come 
to realize just how se- 
rious the consequences 
of acting carelessly will 
be if they haven't figured 
this out already. The 
world of The Witcher is 
a tough and often cruel 
place, and sometimes 
doing what seems right 
can have devastating 
consequences. 


Aggressive 
Negotiations 


Should the characters 
decide to attack Das, 
this will result in a fight. 
Regardless of who wins, 
they will not be run out 
of Spetz unless they kill 
Das. Knocking Das un- 
conscious or otherwise 
defusing the situation 
will have the other vil- 
lagers become visibly 
upset but they won't in- 
terfere. If the characters 
kill Das, go to Ending 
(Cold and Alone). 


Visiting Gart 

Gart is not currently home and asking around 
will reveal that he has left for the day on ‘busi- 
ness’. Any Human Perception checks reveal 
that none of the villagers are lying about this— 
some will even corroborate that they saw him 
leave that morning on foot after having strug- 
gled to calm his horse. Apparently, it was jittery 
this morning and the alderman claimed to one 
of the villagers that perhaps a woodland animal 
has spooked it during the night. Some folks 
found this to be a little strange as Gart owns the 
only horse in the village and they have not once 
seen it behave this way; in fact, Gart often likes 
to remind people that the mount has some bat- 
tle experience, making it braver that most. Most 
villagers, however, thought nothing more of it; 
wolves roam the woods around the mountains 
and perhaps one strayed a little too close to the 
village; it wouldn't be the first or last time. 


Visiting Das 

Das can once again be found outside his home, 
whittling away at a shapeless piece of wood. 
He will confront the characters again. If they 
attacked or riled him up the last time they met, 
he will be more aggressive and loud this time. 
Das has one goal in mind during this confron- 
tation; he wants to find out what they know 
about the Padds and their curse. Characters 
can choose whether to tell him anything they 
have learned or not. 


Reveal Information 


If they choose to inform Das of what they've 
discovered, he will see it as proof that the 
Padds are not only cursed but in league with a 
demon and any attempt to persuade him oth- 
erwise will convince him that the Padds have 
somehow managed to deceive the players. 


Withhold Information 


If they withhold information from Das, he 
interprets their secrecy as an admission of the 
Padds’ guilt. That they are, in fact cursed and 
the characters have somehow been brought to 
the side of evil. 


Once they finish in Spetz, go to Develop- 
ment (It All Falls Apart). 


Development 
(It All Falls Apart) 


Returning to the Padds’ home, characters 
overhear raised voices as they approach: 


Voices, a man and a woman, can be heard 
as you approach the lonesome house. You can’t 
make out the words from this distance, but the 
sharp tone and raised volume can only mean 
anger. Thudding, the banging of a fist against 
wood. A serious argument. 


Those who want to approach unnoticed 
make a DC 12 Stealth check to get close enough 
to discern what is said without announcing 
their arrival. You, the GM, can either explain 
the argument generally or roleplay it by refer- 
ring to the prompt box below. If the players fail 
the Stealth check, go to the section Interrupted. 


Clenn & Ena’s Argument 


Here you will find Clenn and Ena’s 
argument. You can either use this short 
dialogue as written or give characters a 

general overview if you don't wish to act 

it out. Bold text indicates Ena’s speech. 

Italic text indicates Clenn’s speech. 

This is all your damned fault! 

My fault? It was you who 
demanded I do somethin about it! 
‘Whatever it took’, you said. 

Not this though. I never wanted this... 
And yet ye didn't try an’ stop me, did you? 
Youre just as guilty as I am and ye know it! 
Dont you try and turn this on me. I- 


And now that blasted boy- 
That ‘blasted boy is your son! OUR son. 
Is he now? Is that what he is?! Is he?! 


You're a vile man when ye get like 
this, Clenn. I hardly know ye. I 
can barely stand to look at ye. 
Oh, of course—of course ye turn it 
all on me. You always do! Ena Padd 
can do nothing wrong, can she? 
You stubborn, good for nothing, 
man! I can't... [just- Agh! 
Don't you walk away from me, 
woman! Don't you dare! 

A door slams heavily and the 
house abruptly falls silent. 


Interrupted 


Failing the Stealth check will alert both Ena 
and Clenn to the characters’ presence and they 
will immediately stop shouting and open the 
door slightly to check who is out there. Ena 
will immediately shut herself in Orin’s bed- 
room, and it is Clenn who opens the door and 
spots the characters, noticeably red in the face 
from shouting. 


The enraged look on his face swiftly shifts 
into one of panic and he looks down, check- 
ing the now-fresh line of rice grains bordering 
the doorway. One hand instinctively reaches 
for something within the house, obscured by 
the door frame before he appears to rethink 
it, brows furrowed in a scowl as he returns his 
hand to the door. He points an accusatory fin- 
ger at the players, but his eyes betray his wari- 
ness as he says: 


If it’s one of you, I'll find ye out. You know ye 
cant cross this line! You aren't invited in here! 


If any of the characters ask about the line of 
rice, refer to the Useless Precaution sidebar 
on page 175. 


At this point, Clenn and Ena no longer 
have the wand of banishment. If they used 
the stick’s last charge the night before, then 
the players will already be aware of this. If they 
didn't use the stick, then they now find out that 
Orin just broke it, rendering it useless. 


Either way, the loss of the wand of banish- 
ment is the final straw that caused the argu- 
ment the characters came back to. Go to the 
section Gaining Entry. 


Gaining Entry 

Clenn will refuse to let them back in as he 
is unable to verify whether the Horse of Frost 
is hiding amongst them. There are a few ways 
this can be resolved in the following boxes. 


The Demons in the Detail 
Players can prove they aren't the demon by revealing something only they would 
know from having been inside the Padds’ home - after all, the demon can’t enter 
unless Clenn and Ena invite it in and, as a result, it doesn’t know what the inside of 
the house looks like. The characters can describe the layout, anything they noticed 
or remember from Orin’s bedroom—for example, the drawings on the wall. If 
the players are correct in any of their descriptions, Clenn will let them back in. 
However, some characters may choose to lie. In this case, each player that lies must 
make a DC 16 Deceit check. On a success, Clenn will hesitantly let the players 
back inside. On a failure, he'll panic and immediately become defensive, slamming 
the door shut. If characters wish to reason with him again, they must make a 
DC 16 Persuasion check or be ignored. They can also choose to force their way 


inside with a DC 14 Physique check or, if they are a Witcher or Mage, attempt 
to magically influence Clenn to let them in, i.e., using Signs such as Axii. 


Wearing Thin 
Characters can completely disregard talking with Clenn and attempt to shove him 
out of their way. At this point, the wooden bar that usually goes over the door has 
not been slotted back into its brackets yet, leaving it vulnerable. Players make a 
DC 14 Physique check to shoulder the door open and knock Clenn out of the way 
as they barge in. When it becomes clear that none of them stop to count the rice 
grains, Clenn will be visibly relieved and relent, but he is still extremely tense. 


Sixth Sense 


Some animals are sen- 
sitive to the magic that 
radiates from monsters 
and spells; even magi- 
cally imbued beings like 
Witchers are enough to 
trigger a fight-or-flight 
response from them. 
Most notably, animals 
like cats and horses (so 
long as they are not 
Witcher-trained) are 
greatly affected by this. 
For you, the GM, Gart’s 
horse became so upset 
that morning because 
Gart is no longer human. 
Instead, it is the demon 
wearing Gart’s skin. The 
characters are unaware 
of this fact at this point 
in the adventure. 


Once the characters are back inside the house, read aloud: 


Clay shards from a shattered pot are scattered across 
the floor. A small wooden stool is tipped over, one of the 
legs bent at a crooked angle. Ena is nowhere to be seen, 
but her voice can be heard quietly coming from Orin’s 
bedroom, the door shut. An unspoken tension hangs in 
the air, the awkward silence that remains after a heated 
argument. Clenn seems wound up, a tightness about his 
eyes and in the stiff set of his jaw, hands clenched into 
white-knuckled fists. 


A DC 12 Deduction check reveals that this argument 
clearly got out of hand, but it’s unclear who exactly broke the 
furniture. Either way, it was certainly a heated row for both 
parties involved. Refer to the Wand of Banishment box 
below only if the wand of banishment wasn’t used during 
the characters’ first confrontation with the Horse of Frost. 
Otherwise, go to the section Confrontation. 


The Wand of Banishment 


If the wand of banishment was still unused 
when the characters were out investigating Spetz 
and Arrik’s hut, Clenn will suddenly say: 

He broke it.... The boy bloody broke it! 
Clenn is clearly distressed and angry and he 
begins to pace restlessly as he explains that he and 
Ena only took their eyes off Orin for less than a 
minute before discovering the boy had taken the 
wand of banishment and snapped it in half. 
Wound up, Clenn immediately begins to pin 


the blame entirely on Ena and Orin: 

If Ena were watchiw him like I said she should ve been, 
this would never have happened. Useless bloody woman! 
Orin’s bedroom door is suddenly thrown open, banging 

loudly as it hits the wall. Ena storms into the room, 
pointing straight at her husband and shrieking: 

I’m the useless one?! All I ever do is look after Orin and 
deal with your pig-headedness, you selfish bastard!!! 
Clenn immediately turns red in the face and is 
irate, Ena’s words clearly having struck a nerve. 
Their argument devolves into a shouting match, 
swearing and insulting one another, continuing 
to argue like this unless someone steps in. 
Characters can interrupt the two adults in any 


way they please, which will cause Clenn and 


Ena to fall silent. However, by the looks on their 
faces, it is obvious that they still have some choice 
words theyd like to scream at one another. 
Go to the section Confrontation. 


Confrontation 
The players can confront Clenn and Ena with what they've 
learned from the pellar’s hut and the villagers in Spetz. 


If the wand of banishment was already used and the 
scene described in The Wand of Banishment box did not 
play out, Ena can be drawn out of Orin’s bedroom if the play- 
ers ask for her. She will still be angry and slightly flushed 
from arguing with her husband. 


Referring to the handouts and/or the information gath- 
ered from the village and pellar’s hut, the players can ask for or 
demand answers. Realizing that the jig is up, Clenn and Ena will 
finally confess. Refer to the Clenn & Ena’s Story table below for 
the events that led up to the family’s current situation. You, the 
GM, can roleplay Clenn and Ena’s dialogue here however you 
please, using the table as a checklist of information you must 
include for your players to understand the whole story. 


Clenn & Ena’s Story—The Truth 


¢ Five years ago, Ena gave birth to a child, a baby boy. However, the birth was not an easy one, 
and the baby was clearly sickly with an underdeveloped arm and legs. The midwife at the time 
(Vel’s mother) was certain the child would fail to thrive and delivered the grim prognosis to both 
parents, declaring that their newborn son was ‘lame’. 

Clenn and Ena were both devastated at the news, but only for purely selfish reasons. Ena felt that 
her social standing would be ruined if her neighbors found out about the child’s condition, and 
Clenn was embarrassed to have a son he perceived to be ‘weak’. 

Desperate for a solution, Clenn and Ena sought out Arrik of Scala and asked him to help them. 
Arrik was unable to help but in his home Clenn found a tome detailing a creature that could help 
them. The creature in question was said to possess the power to give a man exactly what he 
desires so long as he exchanges something of equal value in exchange for it. 

Arrik refused to perform the ritual to summon the demon so Clenn resorted to stealing the tome 
and performing the ritual himself. He soon found himself unprepared and wholly uneducated 
about the demon he ended up summoning. 

After the Horse of Frost (the Mari Lwyd) had been summoned, both Clenn and Ena agreed 
upon the exchange they wanted; to trade their baby for a ‘perfect’ one: a son who isnt disabled. 
What the parents failed to realize was that the demon only loans what a person desires and can 
return to reclaim it whenever it chooses. Being inexperienced, selfish, and desperate, Clenn and 
Ena failed to be specific in their wording and bound themselves in a contract that the demon is 
now trying to fulfill. The moment the pair accepted Orin as their own child, they unwittingly 
bound him to the demon’ terms. 

Terrified that the Order of the Flaming Rose would discover and come down on them both, 
Clenn and Ena swore to never tell anyone what they had done that night, only telling the pellar 
who discovered the theft too late but took pity on them. 

When it became clear that the Horse of Frost (the Mari Lwyd) refused to leave them alone until 
it could reclaim the child it had loaned, Clenn and Ena decided they could no longer leave the 
house and things very quickly started to spiral out of control. Now, they both regret ever having 
summoned the demon in the first place but have turned to blaming each other for their situation 
rather than admitting they are both equally at fault. 


Go to Development (Breaking Point). 


Development 
(Breaking Point) 


The truth finally out, it is now early evening, 
and the sun is beginning to set. But there is a 
light on the horizon, the glow of torches against 
the darkening sky. Raised voices can be heard 
from outside the house. One familiar voice cut 
through the rest: 


Drag them out—the boy too!! 


Characters recognize this voice immedi- 
ately, it’s Das. 


Outside the house, the villagers have 
formed a mob, torches blazing and make-do 
weapons in their grasps: pitchforks, shovels, 
hand axes, and knives. With the windows at 


the front of the house shuttered, the mob can 
only really be seen through the gaps or if the 
front door is opened. If the door is opened, 
read the description provided in The Mob sec- 
tion. If the characters don't open the door, they 
hear a loud banging coming from the other 
side, followed by the alderman’s anxious voice: 


P-Please, open the door... Perhaps we can 
resolve this peacefully? 


Upon hearing Gart, both Ena and Clenn 
appear visibly relieved and will open the door 
themselves (if the characters dont move to 
open it), but they will not step outside. 


Ableism 


Language has developed 
over centuries and this 
adventure features ter- 
minology that is now 
regarded as ableist. The 
setting of The Witcher 
is inspired by, and based 
upon, the European 
Middle Ages, and terms 
that appear in this text 
such as ‘lame’ are used to 
emulate this world; the 
novels and video games 
also use this terminolo- 
gy. However, these words 
in a modern context can 
cause players to feel un- 
comfortable or upset, 
especially if they them- 
selves are disabled. It is 
highly recommended 
that you check in with 
your players and ensure 
that they are aware of 
this before you run the 
adventure. This ensures 
that everyone at the table 
feels safe and can enjoy 
the fun of roleplay. Fur- 
thermore, you can also 
exchange the language 
used here for modern 
terminology, replacing 
words such as ‘lame’ with 
‘disabled’ 


The Mob 


The gathering is made up of most of the adult villagers in 
Spetz. Das is stood at the front, clearly in charge, whereas 
Gart is pushed off to the side, looking worried and sheepish. 


Torchlight flickers off the face of twenty people, their scowls 
cold and unforgiving. Das stands a few strides before them, the 
leader of the pack. In one hand, he grips a torch of his own, and 
the other stay clutched around a knife, knuckles drawn white. The 
look in his cold eyes is grim. Pushed back from the press of bod- 
ies is Gart, his expression pinched in worry. He sends you all an 
imploring look, clearly hesitant to do anything that may provoke 
anyone. Das makes a noise in the back of his throat and says: 


Our quarrel ain't with you lot, strangers. Youd do well to 
stand aside. Let us past. 


Ena makes a frightened, breathy sound, and flees further 
into the house, shutting herself in Orin’s bedroom with her 
son. If the players ask Das just what it is he thinks he’s doing, 
he'll simply say: 

I'm puttin an end to it. Once and for all. 


Clenn is shaking with barely-contained rage, but he will 
not step out of the house to physically confront Das. Instead, 
he doles out a string of expletives and colorful threats, ada- 
mant that Das has always had something against him and 
his family. Das ignores him and gestures to the mob behind 
him. Four men, carrying torches and makeshift weapons of 
their own step forward and begin approaching the house, 
Das ordering them to ‘grab Ena, Clenn, and Orin, and 
drag them outside’. 


A DC 10 Human Perception check reveals to any uncer- 
tain characters that Das is completely serious about this. 
There is no hesitation in his gaze, no emotion other than 
twisted satisfaction at what he’s doing—as though he has no 
empathy at all. A DC 14 Awareness check has players notice 
that Gart is not getting involved despite his previous defend- 
ing of the family; though there is a look in his eyes, as though 
curious to know where this is going. The alderman seems 
on edge, more so than any of the villagers gathered here. He 
appears to be watching everything very intently, gaze fre- 
quently flicking back to the open doorway that Clenn and 
the characters are stood in. 


Players have two options: they can attempt to defuse the 


situation or become confrontational. Refer to the relevant 
section. 


Defuse 

Characters might try to settle things with words; perhaps to 
stall for time or to end things peacefully. A successful DC 
18 Persuasion check will have Das affected enough by their 


words that he will at least listen to them. They will see that 
Das gradually becomes hesitant, even going so far as to tell 
the men approaching the house to ‘wait’ 


So long as the check succeeds, Das will have sec- 
ond-thoughts. Read aloud: 


A tense hush falls over the mob, everyone looking to a 
clearly torn Das for his orders. Gart, however, suddenly begins 
to shuffle about. A franticness seems to take over him and he 
begins visibly shaking, eyes wild and confused behind his round 
spectacles. He looks to the open doorway with a pained long- 
ing before twisting his expression and turning to the expectant 
crowd, shrieking: 


Well?! What are you waiting for?! Get the boy!! 
Go to Development (The Demon Revealed), 


If the check fails, they aren't successful in swaying him 
and the villagers will attempt to get inside the house, becom- 
ing violent. The Mob consists of a number of peasants equal 
to the Players plus 2 who use the Bandit Stat Block on page 
270 of the Core Rulebook. 


Confront 


Characters may immediately jump to confrontation as soon 
as Das gives the order for the mob to drag the Padds out of 
their home. This will result in violence. The Mob consists of 
a number of peasants equal to the Players plus 2 who use the 
Bandit Stat Block on page 270 of the Core Rulebook. 


Go to Development (The Demon Revealed). 


Development (The Demon Revealed) 


Whether the characters choose to defuse or confront 
in Development (Breaking Point) will affect when the 
Horse of Frost reveals itself. If characters defused the 
situation, go to section In Sheep’s Clothing. If the char- 
acters became confrontational, go to section An Unex- 
pected Horror. 


In Sheep’s Clothing 


Characters who successfully defused the situation, will 
find that Gart suddenly begins behaving erratically. He 
frantically gestures to the front door, demanding that 
the mob go inside and drag Orin out. A DC 12 Aware- 
ness check has players notice that there is noise coming 
from inside the house; it sounds like Orin screaming and 
banging at his bedroom door to be let out—just like he 
did the night before. 


A DC 14 Awareness check brings attention to Gart’s face 
and hands. His eyes have become sunken, and he keeps bar- 


ing his teeth, taking in raspy, shuddering breaths that jerk his 
body just as violently as the tremors rattling through him. 
His fingers bend into awkward positions, wringing at the 
air. When it becomes apparent that no one is going into the 
house, Gart snaps. 


Go to the end of section An Unexpected Horror for the 
Horse of Frost’s (The Mari Lwyd’s) description. 


An Unexpected Horror 


Confronting the mob causes a fight to break out between 
the players and the mob. If the players attack Gart, he is 
injured by the ensuing fight, or if the players have dis- 
patched half of the members of the mob, the players make a 
DC 12 Awareness check to notice that whilst they were try- 
ing to keep the mob out of the house, Gart has approached 
the building only to remain a few steps away from the door. 
He is pacing frantically, flinching every time one of Orin’s 
screams to be let out cuts through the air. Unable to with- 
stand the temptation any longer, Gart appears to lose con- 
trol entirely. 


The sound of bones breaking rends the air and Gart sud- 
denly becomes unnaturally still—a stark contrast to his erratic 
and wild movements just moments before. He slumps forward, 
almost bent in half at the middle, his knees buckled slightly. 
Perfectly frozen for a few seconds when, without warning, he 
throws himself back up, spine painfully, ramrod straight and 
neck stretched up, face turned to the sky. His mouth opens, jaw 
stretching, further and further, until— 


An ungodly sound. Flesh peeling from bone, sloughing off, 
collapsing in on itself like a decayed corpse as, protruding out 
from the gaping remains of a fractured mouth, bare white 
bone slips out. On and on until a horse’ skull, and a collec- 
tion of bone discs, an impossibly long spine that stretches out 
and sends Gart—what little remains of him—pooling onto the 
ground like a rancid gown. The Horse of Frost turns its head to 
you and chatters its teeth, bells and ribbons shifting about the 
column of its neck as a voice hisses from its hollow skull: 


Let me in. 
Go to page 206 for the Mari Lwyd’s stats. 


If the characters fail to kill the Mari Lwyd and die, go 
to Ending (Cold and Alone). If the characters succeed in 
killing the Mari Lwyd, go to Ending (And They Lived Ever 
After). If the characters fail to kill the Mari Lwyd and sur- 
vive, go to Ending (Peace... For Now). 


Ending (Cold And Alone) 


If they are either chased out of Spetz, or fail to defeat the 
Horse of Frost and die, read the following aloud: 


A village sits in ruins, houses broken down to their foun- 
dations as they are consumed by the passage of time. No 
one in Lyria remembers its name; another backend hamlet 
abandoned and left to rot. But there are rumors. That it is a 
cursed place, home now to a monster so devious and deadly 
they dare not name it. All it touches becomes entombed in 
frost; shards of ice so sharp they could cut a man down. 
Nothing grows there anymore, a veritable wasteland of 
cold. But every now and again, a hunter comes back having 
strayed too close, muttering to themselves over and over. All 
of them attest to the same thing: hearing a child’ laughter 
and the cracking of bones. 


Ending (And They Lived Ever After) 


If they succeed in killing the Horse of Frost, they will 
find that the Lucifuge brand over Orin’s eye has faded 
almost entirely, a faint mark on his cheek the only indi- 
cation it was ever there to begin with. Though the demon 
is gone, the attitude of the other villagers has not swayed 
in the slightest. Still convinced that the Padds are cursed 
and a threat to the whole village, Das and the other peas- 
ants decide to banish the family entirely, giving them 
until morning to pack their things and leave. The villag- 
ers cannot be persuaded to come to a different decision: 
either the family leaves or they stay and die. Das will, 
however, thank the characters for uncovering and killing 
the monster and will tell them that the bounty they were 
promised by Gart is in the alderman’s home. 


Clenn and Ena are upset at having to leave their home 
but understand their position—more than happy to leave 
and live than stay and die. They leave Spetz at dawn the 
next day, taking Orin and what little they have with them. 
Read aloud: 


Dawn comes and, eventually, you and the Padds part 
ways. Though no one deigns to leave their home to see you 
out, you can feel every eye on you as you walk through and 
out of Spetz, piercing gazes of suspicion and distrust, even 
after everything you have done for them. As you reach the 
border of the village, you hear a voice cut through the air 
behind you. 


There is Orin Padad, fresh-faced and scar-free. He stands 
awkwardly on the dirt path, bare feet twitching against blades 


of grass and puddles of rain water like he doesn’t know what 
to make of each new sensation; its been so long since he last 
went outside. He has one arm raised, hand above his head in 
a gesture of farewell as he says: 


Thank you. 


Ending (Peace... For Now) 


Like Ending (And They Lived Ever After), Clenn, Ena, 
and Orin will find themselves banished from Spetz, but, 
as the Horse of Frost wasnt killed or otherwise escaped, 
Orin’s Lucifuge doesn't fade, still as bright and angry-look- 
ing as ever. Though the demon is gone for now, the village 
is still set against the Padds—adamant that they are still 
cursed — and cannot be persuaded to think otherwise. The 
fight at the house only gave more credibility to their sus- 
picions and discontent. They will, however, be thankful to 
the players for seeing the demon off and will present them 
with the bounty. 


Though Clenn and Ena express frustration and sadness 
at being forced to leave their home, they understand their 
position: leave and have a chance at a new and better life or 
stay and most likely be killed. However, the Horse of Frost 
isn't truly gone, waiting to strike again. Read aloud: 


Dawn comes and, eventually, you and the Padds part ways. 
Though no one deigns to leave their home to see you out, you 
can feel every eye on you as you walk through and out of Spetz, 
piercing gazes of suspicion and distrust, even after everything 
you have done for them. As you reach the border of the village, 
you hear shuffling behind you. 


There is Orin Padd, staring after you, the scar on his 
cheek angry and deep. He says nothing, just watches, brows 
slightly furrowed and face stern. Suddenly, Ena’s voice calls 
for Orin and the boy hesitates for a moment, looking at each 
one of you in turn before turning around and walking away, 
back to his mother. 


Where to Go From Here? 


By the end of this adventure your players will have dealt 
with a great deal of intrigue and danger in the mountain- 
ous hamlet of Spetz. Depending on how the adventure 
ended they may choose to take some time to lay low and 
recuperate in Spetz or they may choose to head out imme- 
diately. Either way, the trail continues on and the players 
will be leaving Spetz eventually. When they do pack their 
bags and set off again there are a number of options for 
them to pursue. 


The Nilfgaardian army is all around them and this creates 
a number of interesting options for the next adventure. Trav- 
eling east will lead them to the Kingdom of Lyria and Rivia, 
where players might want to team up with Queen Meve and 
her rag tag band of partisans to free the kingdom from Nil- 
fgaardian control. This won't be an easy task, as Nilfgaard- 
ian soldiers occupy nearly every major city in the kingdom 
but there are plenty of loyal allies hidden in backrooms and 
alleyways ready to help players in service to the Queen. 
Whats more, a journey to the city of Rivia could give the 
players an excellent opportunity to make some powerful but 
less than lawful friends. 


For players less invested in the 3rd Northern War, the 
Mahakaman Mountains, which Spetz lies in the foothills 
of, is full of excitement, as the dwarves negotiate with the 
humans and elderfolk of the lowlands and delve into the 
dangerous depths of the mountains in search of ore and valu- 
able. Allying with one of the great houses of Mahakam could 
pull the players into a longstanding clan feud and see them 
racing to the heart of the mountains to slay deadly monsters 
and return with the priceless components from their lairs or 
their corpses. 


More magically inclined characters might want to skirt 
the war front and take the road northeast to try and reach 
the magic academy of Ban Ard before it’s ransacked by the 
Redanians or the Nilfgaardians. This long, harrowing jour- 
ney will take them through steep mountains, murky swamps, 
and monster infested forests until they finally reach the city 
of Ban Ard where they'll have to negotiate with the mages of 
Ban Ard or perhaps steal what they can and escape before 
the war front reaches them. 


Bestiary 


“As the understanding of magic expanded the creation of creatures 
to ease our lives and protect ourselves from danger was inevitable. It 
also seems, however, that this greater harnessing of chaos has drawn 
all manner of dangers from beyond our realm of understanding.” 


The following pages are dedicated to the many 
monsters we mentioned earlier in this book. 
This compilation should allow you to easily 
reference any monster you choose to create, 
summon, or make deals with. 


Bes (Ref. on Page.139) 


Most commonly summoned by desperate 
people seeking power, bes are demons of vio- 
lence which delight in the torture of the living. 
They are difficult to deal with but if you can 
bind them they grant supernatural agility and 
power. Just be wary as they are terrifying ene- 
mies with claws like razors and the ability to 
possess people. 


Casglydd (Ref. on Page.139) 


Often summoned by academics searching 
for rare knowledge, casglydd are demons 
of knowledge who can share with you great 
secrets. However, they are easily intrigued and 
that intrigue quickly turns to obsession, caus- 
ing them to kidnap people away into their own 
realm of shadows. 


Corpse Amalgam (Ref. on Page.133) 


Originally, created by the infamous Nilfgaard- 
ian necromancer, Cadfan of Ebbing, corpse 
amalgams utilize many partially animated 
corpses to create a golem of flesh which is 
capable of brief moments of sapient thought 
thanks to the many tormented souls trapped 
within it. 


—Glynnis var Treharne 


Great Bear (Ref. on Page.94) 


Common across the Continent and well 
respected as apex predators, bears are one of 
the greatest threats in the natural world. For 
our purposes here, we are referring to bears 
as the alternate form of berserkers, the deadly 
bestial warriors of the blood god Svalblod. 


Living Armor (Ref. on Page.104) 


Developed by mages as a cheaper alternative 
to creating golems, living armors use magic to 
animate an existing suit of armor to create a 
simple servant capable of defending its creator 
and performing simple tasks. Living armors 
can also be found as guardians of ancient tem- 
ples and high security vaults. 


Mari Lwyd (Ref. on Page.139) 


Summoned most often by greedy or desperate 
people, mari lwyd are demons of avarice which 
can grant their summoners amazing physical 
wealth and material benefit. But a mari lwyd 
always returns later for payment, taking some- 
thing of equal value which more often than not 
far outweighs the initial gift. 


Penitent (Ref. on Page.131) 


Born from heinous crimes, pentinent are spec- 
ters which haunt those guilty of atrocities. 
They shroud the land in deep fog and summon 
wraiths to kill anyone who gets in their way as 
they seek some twisted form of justice. Penitent 
are a genuine threat for fledgling necromancers 
who attempt rituals beyond their means. 


Collateral 
Damage 


Many of the monsters 
presented in this besti- 
ary are focused more or 
less solely on one target. 
From the demons who 
make deals with certain 
individuals to the peni- 
tent which stalks a spe- 
cific criminal. Keep in 
mind that in all of these 
cases these monsters do 
not shy away from collat- 
eral damage. If someone 
gets in the way of one of 
these monsters as they 
seek out their prey they 
are just as likely to wind 
up dead. 


Dark 
Implications 


Besides the living armor 
and bears, the monsters 
presented in bestiary are 
generally brought about 
by dark doings and rit- 
uals considered evil by 
the world at large. Any- 
one with an ounce of 
sense in their head will 
immediately know that 
if someone is dealing 
with a corpse amalgam, 
a demon, or a penitent, 
something foul is afoot. 


Skill Base 
Athletics 20 
Awareness 10 
Brawling 20 
Courage — 
Endurance = 
Intimidation 19 
Physique 20 
Resist Magic 20 
Spell Casting 18 
Stealth 12 


Wilderness Survival | 12 


Armor 0 


Regeneration — 


Resistances 


Immunities 


Fire, Poison, Bleed, 
Disease, Fear 


Susceptibilities 


Specter Oil, 
Dimeritium Bombs 


Dodge Base 17 
Reposition Base | 20 


Block Base 22 


Bounty 
1500 


Loot 


Ashes (x2d10) 
Beast Bones (x1d10) 
Bes Horns (x1d6/3) 

Infused Dust (x2d10) 
Specter Dust (x1d6) 
Essence of Wraith (x2d6) 
Dazhbog Runestone (x1) 


Height 2.5m 
Weight 162kg 


Wherever they 


Environment 
are summoned 


Organization Solitary 


Heard of these critters once or twice from some of my less savory sources. Heh, the only rea- 


son youd ever wanna summon a bes is if ya need a real powerful warrior on yer side. From 
what I hear, bes’re the guardians of the demon realm. Got talons that'll slice ya from your 
throat to your giblets faster than even a witcher can swing. They're just skeletons too so ya 
can't burn em or poison em. The best thing ya can do is make a deal with em, heh. If ya let 
em possess yer body they'll give ya the plenty of power. 

—Rodolf Kazmer 


Lore & Behavior (Monster Lore DC:18) 


Bes are demons of rage and power which only enter the world of The Witcher to spread pain and delight in the torment of 
mortals. Being demons, they come from somewhere beyond the comprehension of even the most learned sorcerers and their 
societal organization is effectively unknown. However, by observing them you can start to fill in the blanks. Bes are, indeed 
powerful warriors, with claws sharp enough to sever limbs and leave bleeding wounds with every slash. If you must fight a 
bes, it would be your best bet to try and slow it down somehow and bring plenty of clotting powder. These claws are really the 
bes’ only weapon in its corporeal form but the truly complicated part about fighting a bes is their penchant for possession. 


A bes will always begin a fight by trying to possess the most physically powerful target in range. While possessing a target, 
a bes can control their every move and greatly improves their physical capabilities. The presence of the bes also heats the 
possessed target’s blood to a burning river that can melt flesh so breaking the skin of a possessed target is not recommended. 
The only way to force a bes out of a target is to grievously wound the target, have a Mage, Priest, or Druid use magic to force 
the bes out, or to force them to drink a Cerebral Elixir. In some circumstances, killing the possessed target may be a mercy 
as they are still aware of everything going on and bes have a sadistic habit of forcing a possessed target to flay their own skin 
and consume it. If possible, trap the bes in the area of a Dimeritium Bomb. This will render them unable to possess anyone. 


Once you've stopped the bes from possessing someone, bombard it with ranged attacks covered in Specter Oil, avoiding 
fire which bes are immune to. Don’t bother trying to poison it, after all the Bes has no flesh or blood for this to take hold in. If 
you are unlucky enough to encounter a greater bes keep in mind that they are far quicker and more deadly, able to land three 
claw strikes in a matter of seconds. 


Attacks 


i 
Se a 


Pcs [2 [ors [stove | 20 | wa | 


By taking an action, the bes can attempt to possess a tar- 
get within melee range by making a Spell Casting check 
against their Resist Magic check. If successful, the bes 
takes control of the target’s body. This allows the bes to 
use the body of the target but the target gains the REF 
and DEX Statistics of the bes. This change in Statistics 
does not affect Derived Statistics. The target also gains 
the Boiling Blood ability. While a bes is possessing 
them, a character is unable to control their body but is 
otherwise, aware of everything going on around them. 
There are three ways to force a bes out of a possessed 
target: either the target must be reduced to their Wound 
Threshold, a Mage, Priest, or Druid must spend 10 STA 
points and roll a Spell Casting check to beat a DC: 20, or 
the possessed target must drink a Cerebral Elixir. When 
in the area of a Dimeritium bomb the bes cannot use this 
ability. While possessing a target, a bes takes no damage 
from attacks made against its possessed target. 


Bleed (100%), Balanced 


Ability: Boiling Blood 


Whenever you deal damage to a target possessed by a bes 

with a Slashing or Piercing weapon, the resulting super- 

heated spray of blood deals 5 points of damage to the 

attacker’s torso which also ablates any armor by 1 point 
regardless of penetration. 


Ability: Alternate Form (Greater Bes) 


A greater bes has a ROF of 3 with its Claws, has a REF 
and DEX of 14, and it’s Boiling Blood Ability ablates 
armor by 3 rather than 1. 


Skill Base 


Athletics 12 
Awareness 19 
Brawling 18 
Courage _ 
Endurance 14 
Intimidation 14 
Persuasion 12 
Physique 15 
Resist Coercion 18 
Resist Magic Ue 
Spell Casting 20 
Stealth 16 


Wilderness Survival | 17 


Armor 15 


Regeneration _ 


Resistances 
Immunities 


Fear, Blinding 


Susceptibilities 


Specter Oil, 
Dimeritium Bomb. 


Dodge Base 16 
Reposition Base | 12 


Block Base 19 


Bounty 
1500 


Loot 


Infused Dust (x1d10) 
Specter Dust (x1d6) 
Essence of Wraith (x1d6) 
Random Runestones (x3) 
Random Glyph (x2) 


Height Around 2.5m 


Weight 


Environment 


136kg 


Wherever they 
are summoned 


Solitary 


Organization 


Folkre willi’ to do a lot for the right information. Heh, trust me, old Rodolf learned that lesson along 
time ago. The gnomes used to say that if ya get too greedy lookin for that information it can turn ya 
into a casglydd. Lurkin’ in shadows, collectin knowledge that ain't meant for anybody’ eyes. When yer 
dealin with a casglydd ya gotta be wary of its hands. It'll try to snatch ya up and drag you off to some 
hellish shadowy place. But if you can keep it from stealin ya away and force it to talk you can negotiate 
for just about any information. Heh, just don't get too caught up in the hunt or you'll wind up joinin it. 


—Rodolf Kazmer 


ee ee 


Lore & Behavior (Monster Lore DC:22) 


Casglydd are demons of knowledge who primarily prey on academics, mages, and scholars whos hunger for knowledge 
drives them to goetia. They are not created from obsessed scholars. A casglydd lives in the shadows and can make portals 
through these shadows to travel. This teleportation combined with a casglydd’s aversion to combat makes killing them very 
difficult. A casglydd who feels threatened is likely to either disappear and return later or steal away their target and escape 
through shadows. A casglydd can drag a person they touch through the doorway in their chest into its realm of shadows. The 
only way out is to kill the casglydd or convince it to let you out. Once in their realm, the casglydd will try to grasp the target 
with shadowy hands and drain away their intellect and memories. Once they have collected you, a casglydd will sometime 
choose to keep you as a servant or pet by regulating your intelligence through periodic draining. Luckily, even while drain- 
ing a target in it’s shadow realm, a casglydd remains in the physical realm as well and can be attacked and killed. Those who 
choose to make deals with casglydd should be aware that without a Centerpiece the casglydd will become fascinated with you 
and will return to offer you deals that rapidly grow more obscure. In return, the casglydd will offer hidden knowledge and will 
become enraged if you refuse them. 


Ability: Collected Knowledge Ability: Shadow Move 


A casglydd always has a Base 20 when rolling any skill Instead of taking a movement action, a casglydd can 
check to learn, recall, or teach knowledge. transport itself from one area of darkness to another area 
of darkness within 20m. A casglydd can transport objects 


it is holding but not living things. When in the area of a 
Ability: Drag into Shadow Dimeritium bomb the casglydd cannot use this ability. 
If a casglydd hits a target with their claw attack they can = = 
pull the target into their personal realm of shadows. This Ability: Draining Grasp 


realm of shadows is 20m in diameter and 5m tall and has 


no features other than items or people that the casglydd 
stored there (these items may be chosen by the GM) and 
motes of light to illuminate their collection. Once a target 
has been dragged into the realm of shadows the casglydd 
appears with them and is present in both planes of exis- 
tence, sharing the same Hit Points and Armor but getting 


one turn per location. Inside the realm of shadows the lower the INT Statistic of that character by 2. If a target 


By taking a full round, a casglydd in its realm of shadows 
can make a number of Brawling attacks equal the number 
of people in its realm of shadows plus 1 against anyone 
in its realm of shadows. If successful, the target is latched 
onto by a shadowy hand emerging from the floor, walls, 
or ceiling. Immediately after attaching, the casglydd can 


casglydd gains access to its Draining Grasp Ability. The 
only way to exit the realm of shadows is to be cast out by the casglydd can use this ability without having to make 
the casglydd or to kill the casglydd. Immediately after the another Brawling attack. Dealing 5 points of damage to 
casglydd dies, all outsiders present in the realm of shadows one of these hands will free the target. If the target’s INT 
are sucked back into the real world. When in the area of Statistic is lowered to 0, that target becomes trapped in 
a Dimeritium bomb the casglydd cannot use this ability. the realm of shadows, loses their memories, and is con- 


sidered Stunned until they regain at least one point of 


INT. A target regains their full INT Statistic after spend- 
Ability: Greater Casglydd ing 1 hour outside of the realm of shadows. A target 
also regains 1 point of INT per week spent in the realm 


A greater casglydd’s Collected Knowledge Skill Base is 25 of shadows. The character’s memories will only return 
and it’s Hit Points are raised by 30. when they have regained all of their INT. 


is already latched onto at the start of the casglydd’s turn, 


Skill Base 


Awareness 10 
Wilderness Survival Wi 
Brawling 16 
Athletics 11 
Stealth 10 
Physique 20 
Endurance 17 
Courage ee 
Intimidation 16 
Resist Magic 17 


Resist Coercion = 


Armor (0) 


Regeneration — 


Resistances 
Bludgeoning, Piercing 
Immunities 


Poison, Bleeding, 
Charm, Knock-Down, 
Fear, Stun, Coercion 


Susceptibilities 


Specter Oil, 
Dimeritium Bomb 


Dodge Base 1. 
Reposition Base | 13 


Block Base 16 


Bounty 
800 


Loot 


Lunar Shards (x1) 
Fifth Essence (x1d6) 
Specter Dust (x1d6) 

Essence of Wraith (x1d6) 


Height | Form Varies 
Weight Around 680kg 


Around crypts and 


Environment 
mage towers 


Organization Solitary 


Now Id never heard of this one but Glynis swears up and down it’s true, heh. She tells me 
this Nilfgaardian found a way to really animate corpses for real by doin’ some kinda ritual 
with the souls of other mages or somethin’. I mighta been half awake when she mentioned 
it. Heh, either way, these things are just piles of corpses so ya can't reason with em or poison 
em or anything. Got so many sets of eyes ya can't sneak up on em. The best thing ya can do 
is to start knockin the bodies off of em. Sets the souls free and weakens the beast. 
—Rodolf Kazmer 


ee ee 


Lore & Behavior (Monster Lore DC:21) 


A corpse amalgam is a non-sapient golem created from many partially animated corpses. Most often, amalgams are used as body- 
guards but some necromancers create them to be assistants. In combat, amalgams are usually very simple, smashing things with 
their many limbs and pausing only every once in a while to emit a horrible wail which stuns nearby targets. They are entirely undead 
and therefor cannot heal but are also immune to attempt poison them, create bleeding wounds, or effect them mentally in any way. 
Additionally, their massive bulk and many limbs make them impossible to knock prone. The greatest danger of a corpse amalgam 
is also the fastest way to kill it. By striking critical wounds and separating corpses from the amalgam you can break it down very 
quickly. However, with each separated body the soul that inhabited that body returns as a violent wraith which targets the person 
who unleashed it. While you may kill the amalgam quickly, the wraiths could prove even more dangerous. The last thing to keep in 
mind when fighting an amalgam is that they're capable of temporarily summoning sapience back into one of the souls bound within 
them. If faced with a problem such as a locked door, a puzzle, or a target they cannot reach, a corpse amalgam can force a degree of 
sapience to figure out how to open the door, solve the puzzle, or even wield a ranged weapon. 


Attacks 


faa 
ene [a [ine [DMG [na [RNG[ ee | 
Sinan tn he Se 


Vulnerability: Truly Undead Ability: Temporary Sapience 


A corpse amalgam is truly dead and therefore its body Without taking an action, a corpse amalgam can forcibly 
is not functioning normally and does not heal. A corpse return one of the spirits in its body to sapience and make that 
amalgam cannot be affected by spells or items that restore spirit dominant in the amalgam. Immediately upon doing 
HP and it does not heal naturally. this, the corpse amalgam rolls 1d10, re-rolling a value of a 

1. This value becomes the corpse amalgams Intelligence and 


Crafting Statistic Values for 10 rounds. While Temporary 
Ability: Amalgamated Form Sapience is in effect, the corpse amalgam becomes a Sapient 
creature which is still under the control of the Necromancer 


who summoned it. The mind of the amalgam is in unending 

pain and barely capable of speech but it is capable of mak- 

ing tactical decisions and performing technical actions. For 

example: wielding weapons, unlocking things, solving puz- 

zles, etc. If the amalgam is forced to make a check with a Skill 

it doesn’t possess while Temporary Sapience is active, roll 
1d6 to determine the value of its Skill. 


A corpse amalgam is animated by spirits which are 

bound to this plane of existence by necromancy. No 
singular part or function of the amalgam’s body is crit- 
ical to its survival and in many cases separating parts 
of the amalgam can cause more problems than good. 
Whenever a character would strike a Critical Wound on 
a corpse amalgam, the attack still deals normal damage onc c é 

but instead of scoring a Critical Wound one of the bodies 
in the amalgam is separated and the spirit controlling it 

is freed. The amalgam takes an additional 10 points of By taking an action, a corpse amalgam can emit a chorus of 
damage and a hostile wraith is summoned. This wraith horrible echoing wails from the many mouths on its body. 


fights alongside the amalgam and takes the orders of the Any living creature within 10m of the corpse amalgam 
necromancer that created it. must makes a DC:16 Resist Magic check or be Staggered. 


A corpse amalgam is made up of many different bodies 

bound together by magic and has no vital spots on its body. 

If an attack would strike the head of the amalgam or any 

other spot that would multiply damage, the attack deals 
normal damage rather than triple damage. 


A corpse amalgam has eyes all over its body. It is capable of 
seeing in all directions simultaneously and it’s Vision Cone 
is 360 degrees. 


Skill Base _ 


Athletics } 10 
| Awareness 10 | 
_ Brawling ; il 13° 
Cogs | 
Endurance 16 
} Intimidation 14 
Physique —'|--20 
Resist Magic 13 
Stealth ‘a 
ees eal ae 


Armor | 14 


Regeneration | — 


Resistances 


Bludgeoning, 
SHICTOINE SAS IEE, 


Immunities 


Susceptibilities 


Beast Oil 


Dodge Base 


Reposition Base 


10 


Block Base 


15 


Loot 


Bear Fat (x1d6) 
Bear Hide (x1d6/2) 
Raw Meat (x3d6) 


Beast Bones (x2d6) 


Medium 
Simple 


| | 


Weight | 600kg 
Environment | _ Forests | 


I Organization | | Solitary or in pairs | 


Ya oe all age these big gnarly monsters Sue their as peat aad Weta magic Sipe: 
and their invisibility and whatnot and ya tend to forget about natures own ploughin’ murder 
machines. Heh, I've been in a wagon that got attacked by a bear. Yeah, there I am mindin my 
business in the back of the wagon and suddenly the whole thing rocks like it just got hit by a 
ploughiw’ trebucht! Won't go into exhaustive detail on that little scuffle. Let's say, I gave it a few 
bolts from my trusty crossbow and when that didn’t do much I decided to make a tactical retreat. 
Heh, some of the others on the wagon werent so lucky... If a bear rears up, run for yer life. 
—Rodolf Kazmer 


Lore & Behavior (Monster Lore DC:12) 


Bears kill more people every year than most monsters. A bite from a wyvern is more survivable than a bite from a bear. Where 
a werewolf ’s claws can be parried, a bear's claws can not, and the bear will still be trying to kill you when the sun comes up in 
the morning. While many scholars on the Continent would classify the bear as a beast instead of a monster, I believe that the 
bear would disagree. Reality demands it’s inclusion into their monstrous ranks. Carry Beast Oil on you at all times and you 
might survive your fight. When blocking the heavy swipes of a bear, a shield will do not much-except snap. Instead, try and 
reposition yourself out of reach of its arms whenever possible. While this won't tire out the bear, this will hopefully keep you 
from being torn apart by the bear’s sharp teeth during a horrifically one-sided grapple. If you ever have to look up at a bear 
rearing up at you on its back two legs, you've already made a fatal mistake. 


a 
xa mG] Bee 
= 


ee ee es 
SS Ca LE 


Ability: Rearing Strike 


By taking its full round, a bear can rear up onto its hind legs and bring down both claws on a target in melee range, using an 

attack base of 14. If this attack hits, the target takes 6d6 damage to their torso, is knocked prone, and pinned by the bear. If 

the target tries to block this attack, they can negate the damage but they are still knocked prone and pinned unless they can 

beat the bear’s Physique check with their own Physique check. If they do manage to succeed, the target is able to throw off 
the bear and is unaffected by any part of the Rearing Strike ability. 


“The Empire has often been at odds with the island clans of Skellige and we have “4 
any number of great warriors and vicious raiders. I have yet to personally see a a 
serker or even a Great Bear deployed to assault Nilfgaardian forces but I suppose tits 
could also be chalked up to the fact that a bear would not make the best naval com- 
batant. I did once have an associate who was deployed in an early attempt to claim a 
foothold on the island of Eyna by the previous Emperor who claimed to have faced : 
Berserker in single combat. Most of our peers simply thought he had been careless is 

wandered too near to bears den. It’s difficult to say, though. The many islands of t € 
Great Sea are rocky and forested, housing many places for a cult of bear worshiping 


priests to shelter their followers.” 
— Glynnis var Treharne — 


Skill Base 
Awareness 14 


Wilderness Survival | 13 


Brawling 16 
Athletics 10 
Stealth 10 
Physique 16 
Endurance — 
Courage = 
Intimidation 10 
Resist Magic 14 1 | 
Resist Coercion — 8 
6 
ae Based on 8 
Armor Used 4 
Regeneration — 1 
1 
Resistances 2 


Based on Armor Used 


Immunities 


Poison, Bleeding, Charm, 
Fear, Stun, Coercion 


Susceptibilities 


Height | Based on armor used 


Elementa Oil, : 
Dimeritium Bombs Weight Based on armor used 
Around ruins or 


Environment 
mage towers 


Dodge Base 12 
Organization | Solitary or in pairs 


Reposition Base | 10 


Block Base 16 


Bounty 


400 | 
Ya don't see these that often anymore. I guess the cost of man-power’s gone down or the cost 
Loot of good armor’s gone up. Heh, might be both come to think of it! Back a few decades ago 


livin’ armor was all the rage. Mage’s would be whippin up bodyguards made outta the fin- 


Fifth Essence (x1d6/3) We ¢ Ks 

infused Dust(cide/3) est armor to parade around town. Living armor itself ain't the toughest combatant though. 

A eed Can't think for themselves like a proper flesh and blood soldier. The trick is, ya gotta hit em 
Any Worn Weapons or Items with a dimeritium bomb. That'll dispel the magic and you can rip out their golem heart. 


—Rodolf Kazmer 


Lore & Behavior (Monster Lore DC:16) 


Living armor is an ingenious invention created centuries ago by an unknown mage and spread throughout the known world 
on the strength of its premise. Rather than hire a fallible human, elf, dwarf, etc. and outfit them with armor and weapons to 
guard you or your possession you can just animate the armor. The armor will be inexhaustible, comparably cheap, and most 
importantly eternally loyal. You never have to worry about a suit of living armor wandering away from its post for a drink, 
falling asleep on the job, or stabbing you in the back for the promise of better pay. And so for a while suits of living armor 
became very popular among nobility and the magically gifted. More reliable than a living guard and cheaper than a golem. 
Many suits of living armor still stand watch over noble bedchambers, mage’s laboratories, and ancient tombs. 


In combat, a suit of living armor isn't drastically different from a mortal opponent. They “wear” normal armor, and wield 
normal weapons with the skill expected of a soldier. They are capable of unleashing a flurry of attacks which may prove dan- 
gerous but in the process they inevitably damage their own shell. When fighting one, dimeritium bombs are a good option 
but they do not dispel the magic, only slowing the armor. The best way to kill a suit of living armor is to open it’s torso armor 
with an ablating weapon and shatter the golem heart at its center. This will instantly kill the living armor. 


Attacks [are] 


Name ATK Base | Type | DMG | Rel. | RNG Effect 
Fist 16 B 1d6+2 | 15 = 2 


Vulnerability: Dimeritium Bomb 


When struck by a Dimeritium Bomb, a living 
armor becomes disrupted and sluggish. They are 
incapable of using their Overreach ability and take 
a -2 to all rolls while in the area of the bomb. 


Ability: Living Armor 


A suit of living armor is made up of three pieces 
of armor and each location has the SP of that 
armor. The living armor cannot wear armor but 
it can be upgrade with armor enhancements and 
glyphs like any other suit of armor. The SP value 
of the living armor does not heal with the HP of 
the living armor but can be fixed just like regular 
armor. Additionally, living armor is unaffected 
by the Restrict Vision effect. If the SP of a living 
armor's limb is reduced to 0 that limb is considered 
severed and is useless to the living armor. 


Vulnerability: Golem Heart 


A suit of living armor is held together by a golem 
heart suspended inside the chest by magic. The 
golem heart cannot be targeted. However, when 

the torso armor of the living armor is reduced 
to 0 SP, the golem heart is exposed. The next 
attack to strike the living armor’s torso hits the 
heart and reduces the living armor to OHP. 


Ability: Weapon Master 


A suit of living armor is inherently skilled with 
all weaponry and has a Skill Base of 16 with all 
Weapon Skills. When a living armor is wielding 
a one-handed weapon, it makes all attacks 
with 2 ROF, When it is wielding a two-handed 
weapon, it makes all attacks with 1 ROE 


Ability: Overreach 


A suit of living armor can sacrifice 10 HP on 
its turn to make a single extra attack roll with a 
weapon they are wielding. If using this ability 
would reduce the living armor to 0 or fewer HP the 
living armor dies after making the extra attack. 


Skill Base 


Athletics 18 
Awareness 16 
Brawling 18 
Courage = 
Acting 16 
Endurance | 18 
Intimidation 16 
Physique | 18 
Resist Magic 20 
Stealth 16 


Wilderness Survival | 16 


Armor 5 


Regeneration — 


Resistances 


Immunities 


Poison, Bleeding, Freeze, 
Fear, Magic Scanning 


Susceptibilities 


Specter Oil, Fire, 
Moondust Bomb, 
Dimeritium Bomb 


Dodge Base | 18 


Reposition Base | 18 


Block Base 18 


Bounty 
1500 


Loot 


Beast Bones (x1d10) 
Mari Lwyd Skull (x1) 
Silk (x1d10) 
Infused Dust (x1d10) 
Specter Dust (x1d6) 
Essence of Wraith (x2d6) 
Zoria Runestone (x1) 


Height 2.5m 


Weight 135kg 


Wherever they 


Environment 
are summoned 


Organization Solitary 


If ya hear an eerie chorus singiw’ at your door in the middle of the night it’s best if ya lock up 
tight and plug yer ears. Honest, it’s the best advice I can give ya, heh. Mari lwyd are demons 
that prey on folks who deny em hospitality. They wander around, askin for food and beer and 
a place by the hearth and whatnot. If ya answer the door but ya don't let em in they'll mark 
ya. Worst part is, a mari lwyd’s got this power that lets em possess folks. If ya don’t let em in 
they'll possess one of yer neighbors and make em beg ya to let em in. 

—Rodolf Kazmer 


Lore & Behavior (Monster Lore DC:18)(133) 


Mari lwyd are demons of greed who give desperate people their wildest dreams only to return for nightmarish repayment. 
Without permission, a mari lwyd cannot pass the threshold of a home so it will sing to the debtor outside their door. If they 
are still not let in, the mari lwyd may kill the debtor’s neighbors and take their shapes to trick them. Mari lwyd are shrewd 
and vain creatures that will fly into a rage if you insult them or deny them what they consider to be fair. If it turns to violence, 
a mari lwyd will prefer to stay at a distance, using its extremely long neck like a whip or lunging its skeletal head out to bite 
through armor with unnaturally sharp teeth. Be wary that this demon exudes an aura of icy cold which may freeze you in 
your tracks. If possible, attempt to sever its neck to take away its best weapon. 


a 
Sone [ark [Se [be [aa [eve | etn 
| 1s | P| sdo4 | 10 | 100m | Improved Armor Piercing, Freeze (100%) 

a 
| Slam | ts] Bade | a5 | — | _Stagger(somy 


Vulnerability: Fragile Spine Ability: Chill Aura 


If a mari lywd’s Spine Whip attack is successfully par- 
ried or is reduced to 0 REL, its neck is severed and it can 
no longer use its Spine Whip attack or Shapeshift abil- 
ity. The head and the body now act separately on its turn 
and the neck retracts back into the body. The head may 
now only use the Bite attack (with RNG reduced to melee 
range) and floats around at its normal SPD Statistic in 
any direction. The body may only use the Slam attack and 
cannot extend its neck. Aiming for the mari lywd’s head 


suffers the same penalty you would normally for attack- 
ing the head. Both halves of the mari lywd still share HP 
and armor and make use of their Chill Aura ability inde- 
pendently. If adjacent to it’s head, the mari lywd can take 
its full turn to reattach it, tying it back on with a ribbon, 
which restores its Spine Whip attack to 20 REL. 


Ability: Shapeshift 


A mari lwyd can mimic humanoid voice flawlessly. Addi- 
tionally, as long as a mari lywd has more than 50 HP, 
without taking an action, it can transform into a human- 
oid that it has killed in the past. While shapeshifted, the 
mari lywd can only use its Slam attack, and can repress 
its Chill Aura ability. If the mari lywd is reduced to 50 HP 
or less, it is forced to revert back to its true form. When 
in the area of a Moondust bomb the mari lwyd cannot 
use this ability. 


A mari lywd radiates an aura of otherworldly cold. If a 
creature starts its turn within melee range of the mari 
lywd, they have a 50% chance to freeze. If the mari lywd 
is on fire at the beginning of a turn where it’s Chill Aura 
ability is active, the fire immediately goes out, before the 
mari lywd takes damage. When in the area of a Dimerit- 
ium bomb the mari lwyd cannot use this ability. 


Ability: Retractable Neck 


Whenever a mari lwyd takes a movement action, it 
can choose to extend its neck up to 10m in any direc- 
tion regardless of whether its body moves. Once it has 
used its Bite or Spine Whip attack at a distance, its head 
remains at that distance. As an action, the mari lwyd can 
retract its head all the way back to its body as long as it is 
still attached. If someone is currently grappling the mari 
lwyd’s head or neck and it tries to retract, the mari lywd 
must make a Physique check against the grappling oppo- 
nent. If it fails, it cannot retract. If it succeeds it pulls free 
and retracts. 


Ability: Greater Mari Lwyd 


A greater mari lywd’s Hit Points are raised by 30, its 
Spine Whip attack is ROF 4, and its Chill Aura has a 
100% chance to freeze. 


Skill Base 


= Athletics | 14 | 
Awareness il ical 
Brawling | 15 | 
Courage | — | 
Endurance } 15 
Intimidation | 17 | 
Physique | 15 
Resist Magic | 15 | 
Spell Casting 17 | 
| Stealth =| 17 | 
Wilderness Survival | 12_ 


_ — — 


Armor | 0 


| | 
|| Regeneration | — 


Resistances 


Immunities 


|| Charm, Coercion, Fear, 


||_ Bleed, & Poison, Disease _|} 


Specter Oil, Yrden, 
Moondust Bomb __ 


—— ———} 


Susceptibilities | 


Dodge Base | 16 


|= —— 
' l. 


Reposition Base | 18 


— =I 
| 


Block Base | 17 


Specter Dust (x1 d6) 
Wraith Essence (x1d6) 
Infused Dust (x1d6) 


—| 
! 
! 


_ Random Rune (x1) 


Medi 


um 
Comple: 


lex 


Wherever they 


|| Environment 
| are summoned_ 


a| 


= 
| 


| Organization | 


Solitary 


‘A penitent’ a type of demon that haunts folks who've done wrong. Heh, folks say that if ya 
kill someone in cold blood or commit some kinda heinous crime near a source of magic like 
a place of power or the like you'll get chained to one of these bastards. When they appear to 
ya, a penitent'll drown the land in fog and shadows so ya can't escape and then steal your 
soul. Old elven legends say they carry around the souls of all the folk they've taken in their 
lanterns and slowly drain them of all their power or some such. Heh, all I know is, when the 
fog starts settin’ in ya better have a dimeritium bomb to chuck or youve done for.” 
—Rodolf Kazmer 


Lore & Behavior (Monster Lore DC:16) 


While they aren't demons, penitents are souls that return to the mortal coil to punish evil doers and those whove committed 
heinous crimes. Much like their lesser cousins, wraiths, no one can entirely agree on where they return from but the fact is that 
if you commit a heinous enough crime you have a chance to summon a penitent. If you do, the penitent will attach itself to both 
you and the location of the crime plunging the area into a cloud of unnatural mist and summoning wraiths within the area. The 
penitent will appear in the mist to haunt you, calling your name in a hoarse rasp and attacking you the moment you come within 
sight. The wraiths summoned by the penitent will attack anything that enters the area of the mist with unrestrained fury. 

In combat, a penitent fight in a very similar manner to its lesser cousins, swinging wildly with its sword and lantern, and 
periodically disappearing, only to appear somewhere unexpected for a surprise attack. It can shift in an out of the physical 
world at will, making it difficult to strike with physical attacks and is constantly moving, circling its prey. If under serious 
threat, a penitent will split itself into a group of lesser wraiths and attempt to surround their target. The best way to deal with 
this assault is to lay down an yrden circle to slow the penitent and any wraiths it summons and keep them from shifting or 
teleporting. If the penitent splits into multiple wraiths keep moving and kill them quickly before they have a chance to gang 
up on you. Once you've killed the lesser wraiths, the penitent will be forced back into its natural form. 

The only way to get rid of the penitent without killing its prey is to kill it but as long as it remains shrouded in its other- 
worldly mist the penitent cannot be killed. Attempts to kill the penitent will do nothing and it will likely kill you eventually. 
To permanently kill a penitent you must find the person who summoned the penitent in the first place and have them light 
a large fire within the mist. This fire will banish the mist, allowing you to kill the penitent once and for all. This isn't always 
difficult as a Penitent often follows the person it’s bonded to. If the penitent’s prey remains in one area for more than three 
days the penitent will come to them, bringing its supernatural fog and its horde of wraiths. 


SS a 


[PantentSvord | a7 [Pors | sasea| as | — | Bletingtay | 2 
ee a ee 


Ability: Supernatural Fog Ability: Split Form 


The area where a penitent haunts is immersed in a thick By taking its action, a penitent can split its corporeal form 
cloud of supernatural fog and shadows with a 50m radius, into 4 separate wraiths which appear with full hit points 
centered on the scene of the crime or the location of the within 10m of where the penitent was. All 4 of these wraiths 
penitent’s prey when the penitent arrived. Anyone in this act on the penitents initiative place and are controlled by the 
fog, save for the penitent and its wraiths, is unable to see penitent. The penitent takes no damage from the damage 
anything that is farther than 4m from them. While in this dealt to the individual wraiths. When all 4 wraiths have been 
fog, the penitent takes no damage from any form of attack. killed, the penitent must return to its single form and takes 
This fog can only be dispersed by killing the penitent 20 points of damage if it’s fog has been dispersed. Once the 
or having the penitent’s prey light a large fire within the penitent has been returned to its single form it cannot split 
fog. As long as the fire remains lit and the penitent’s prey into separate wraiths again for 3 rounds. While in the area of 
remains in the area the fog remains dispersed. Dimeritium Bomb the penitent cannot use this ability. 


Ability: Shift Ability: Teleportation 


A penitent can roll a Spell Casting check against an attack A penitent can use its movement action to teleport 10m 
to become incorporeal and negate the attack. If they suc- immediately. When in the area of a Moondust Bomb or 
ceed, nothing physical affects them until the start of their Yrden circle the Penitent cannot use this ability. 
next turn. If in the area of a Moondust Bomb or Yrden cir- 

cle, the penitent cannot use this ability. 


“az (Components 


“If ya ever find yourself 


at a northern market ; ES 
ai ea ‘As a Director of Magic at Gweison Haul I always kept various — 
demon Id suggest ya find components on hand with which to brew elixirs and alchemical — 
ae Rs remedies to the various ailments suffered by the faculty and — 
find. Heh, the customers students. However, in most circumstances, this store of alchemical 
pee Heys a components was uniform in its ingredients. I had a specific herb — 
gonna have an interestin’ to obtain rebis, a certain mineral for hydragenum, and a fungus — 
ie ne We: to distill fulgur. In my flight across the Northern Realms I was . 
with ancient runes. Not without my usual provisions and had to make do with whatI could 
ee ae as find. While I would have liked to have had my perfectly measured 
—Rodolf Kazmer ingredients, there was a certain excitement to improvising with 
unknown mushrooms and monster bile.” 
—Glynnis var Treharne 


Alchemical Components 


i i 


ae ee 
Mari Lwyd Skull Hydragenum (*%) ee Found on Mari Lwyd Swe eSas eA es 


Mutagens 


Prolific Hair Growth 


Index 


ACAadeMICLS..............00000000000004 SEE Mage Schools 


COMPONENUS 5.05.49 se seessessse.secseseseverersasssstenct al O 


oye 
Deities OOOO OO OOOO OOO SOOOOOOO OOO OOOOOOO OOOO OOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOD 37-48 


Se oram Agh- Tera’ i.....sugeaeialsrecelrretae te ote catcnereoe 45 
Wawa Meadb hist. oo. 35.20 eee Meee eas te strate ea ces od 39 
EPONA 3). 3 Leen eas hiesse sian eM, Snot te See Peauacesossdess 45 
1 REN EPR Rey SOO RC I Sho A Or ea AU REE en OE 41 
GR SR PPR ena ATM RA Ten ete Hv ENR Pc yi Fe 43 
TSP Qadir cp stescst ode eden cee Mie e Cac eee cA RI cots IRAE 45,95 46 
VLU Le ewes 8 sist cesever dtussos soos ee tvs GoM oral. bebe dpooersbea sos 44 
VAT SAM etree sso sn. Lasessteetenss<onsts sete mene tear et est ss Sa cares basoteaes 46 
TSI EST SAMI, ERR CIS Aco 8.0.0 aera tee ae 47 
eMC x, cl seidives is<diags sit, gS aR Aad enna vaste pon 48 
Maes EACrn alo Rit es i.e s.tesiisn te Meee rodto vans otsoness oSld poeatonceace 40 
MSs REAL SUT. a. Seeges ue ie armen, ks aaah oa codeceatons ee 42 
MINS OLA AVS eis scr. tla ienttewoletinessparsteaecstes eine OIG 37 
dincirapnet Webloda:..,\.uire tareteopistoasonste Mb apelicsks access 47 
CVO PALS meMriestycssecsescsMessee. dnote moi ssticsaches sctatuca merce taee 48 


Druid Circles COCO OCO OOO OO OOOO OO OOOO SOS OOO OOOO OOO OOOOOOOOS 61-66 


The Circle of Bleobheis................s.sssesessesesseseossceseasoneossnenees 63 
The Circle of Caed Myrkvid..............scccssscsessssessesessoseesoveseos 64 
Mnieicircle-of Gedyneith a. 0ue hase eevee dasvenreice 65 
flinenircle: of Gw yi Carin eit grssstsccssssosheatioveues ostpiedovssasnssons 61 
a bpreostien ney us CST G35... sacgsuaatsorae tashgetcn copeak oMieas ah ss uaedatsoasosebees 62 
Wandering ruids.s %tacs..isatsreosetsnicesscsosris sheet eaiaetes cists 66 


TELUS COV esther vaonseoscorontetieees te dasssht ets Diateemratas Setovosteatscskasteearenss 56-57 
WO nSteMAUNtiNg. ii.inen ncaa cde mtd ureteral eee 66 
Oreanizationss. 22.1. cecmcase oes ccastce tees see Druid Circles 
PCOLESSION spavisolirs., hase sta tee. oe Mataies. sonst BOE ees sas Meee 67 
SVR ye ean are ih S A... ch Sor eee ree aM R SY 5 68-69 
Opell ...5..stl eee eames et ent. sctarsaos.> see Invocations, Druid 


UNIS Re eo eet soseeecatecanecaeko-1L16 


EnchantmentS .........cccccccccsscsccsssccessscsseee LLI-114 


Crafting Reet eu crepes nditiosaetoscitcaa me eonk hs. 113-114 
Gly phwerdayrrs.u0s.. ie een ame Boeck a1. oe 112 
RUM EW OLAS ean. cts cotienet tenn esteem enti T cles caee 111 


GOCE a ces eae ciated Oke tee eine 139-149 


Beenie fitssh i reget, cea iets 23.0 eae Rl teres aces ee 141 
D Cals crt ee ie een Hen Ane. oer Meese nett seta ee 140 
Greatemdemonse nthe retrain sis bestevss ste einses asses 141 
Ritual sce eh cere rate Meee ee tise een ae 142-144 
WO OSA Ree OSB ale aerated oes vein ane ae 145-149 
AWN AINE Sera aetna sest rots tee ote acts so eee 143 


FL GXO Soo. eres eee ee ee hove cetiotsenrs bec 1 Ob -ALOG 


Brame sil Glass ities oh itt nasa Reee acon ako tamara ty 106 
Curse: of Temperance nic .cesiobesnisstviec-onessoatvsocsnemian Ablonties 105 
Hex of Forgetitilness ss..ieiobieastetossssossssaasverionateea aus 106 
High danger HeNxes scot Noten t ets ssactsaa tt Bt oss st .us ences 106 
IGVEClANI GOT VE NES verter iene: rece cies. xi svacla bs edosaponserindieeaaey 105 
ALS AUN CAN GCL NCXES cca oaebmsoeesins.sosorsscorstaanvtwensadssecseases 106 
SORE VUE ViSoeetal enacting MiSee, cas sisaasisatves tis riateor eclesooyehedes 106 
I WiCM Oe FOEES ole pny ea he Oe rs ery Rn SRE 105 
Wnending Needeeemsae. (ie carrtn meen! crsccwitjs Steers. 106 


Invocations, Druid.............cccccrssssccrresseseee IO- 100 


Bigelow Ss Beroulime mts. ciy,.ct.s..cbeneles We iaxi sods fvoodonsvesssssncbashedacd Oy, 
Bloodbot the Mountains wvastit..sescsaseovttsoonsssdes bs chvonsvveres 98 
Conspiracy of the Mother ...............csssccsssesessessseonssnsneovssene 100 
Bri d GM ote nase eer as atte csnsn sa aes eeu sel stsdewoneenteneneee 98 
RA Pb Misi iee ps tee sa cence eect ses en, «cay att sSgha 2s oa oh oLalcobs tous vgcodt 97 
Hierophant/Flaminika invocationsS.........ccscsesssesseesesenes 100 
JOULNEYMEN INVOCATIONS ........ceeeserssseseterssseseeesseeees 97-98 
MaSterIMVOGAL ONS cesee st ced sclen set serogitere bac tsaeees 98-99 


IN@VICENNY OCA ONS Ht esrat rr testes. soe: roeaese eae een ee 97 
Sanctuary of the Black Grove ........ssseesssceeeseeeeseseeneseenes 100 
Shade: of Bleobheris's ieee) siiscosssessccssssscsstess sneobnnocennobocneteovon 100 
ST Btls the ets eae eect eons sui dons, less Sah odeonb eueasedssor toda 98 
Fouch: of Bowmnntya east itll sat estos ce des casscssdeapheones g/ 
WVoice.of the ‘Counselors s.25 rial Cocos Gants oss vaaperng 97 
Web: of ROOUS km teh cine penn lass aekleontsssspstoeene sete 97 
WellPot Knowled oe txc gee ys msceesetesst sabes: eotdsectohesee ene 100 
SVinds' ofthe Taigay.c tenemos We ecg ive lamsseseseneiy ons 100 
Word-<of Summoning ery ese ees a Gatos ocsesiadne o/ 
aWicath' of. Nature 2 Mick. raat Ae OMe MeeeAe say cesosvvas as 99 


InvocatiOns, PLiest...........creccccssccrssscrssssees IL-95 


Arch) Priest invocation staves: neem ete creates 94 
BlessedtHerd se cteserten sete en eae ae eerie cats 94 
BleSse da WeAPOMs, seit. isccastleser aes Meme, Sse cvstvon,duondarevoe 92 
Blessing of ADUNdance.............cssesessesesssreesosscoencoesoseesoseanes 93 
Blood of the Berserker..........csssssssssssscsssscssesessessecssessenercecess 94 
Heart OE, WW ILNSL IND sii hy.,., 0s. ongeneee sete We sacate ae slancansitesveskon 93 
CWamipion-of the RAVER .:./cctmteete testo io cass suctselssbevsssavvecdiaass 94, 
Divine mspinatiOm. Lee werent ecsts.ss or seseds das iaesctocesensaees 92 
IDM VC ILOMS I ALKMESS ae. scaircascsc8o + seats oduseoosad oes eshor os seqsmameats o3 
PUG EE LOPICY Chis .jactiensstuchetes tagvinsstonsessseetseseanairas cts bsoncbrocee dl 94, 
JOUFNEYMEN INVOCATIONS .........cscsseeesteesesetstscseseeetecseseeseees 93 
MEV SITE DC RRATICE iat cgstrasSusadilss ovin foes totly statslisastoogbaneeNt Bares bows 92 
IMIASUETINVOGALIONS yrsacstcerteteeneee ota teae sone enact 93 
Miraclelofdltebiodagtes tii iiertiia ts eterna te 95 
INOVICe: INVOCALIONS acces snes ters Mitscrsrn ec eteeer ert pete set 92 
mens: ofthe Ruture 2h seis ci eats cee ce eee 95 
Presence of: the, Divine sees. cate ecsteseks see eueescte sacs sree 92 
@mllkopthe:Divinern assent ie ets htt. 93 
Retribution of the Raven.........ccsesescsssseesssecsscssescsestesenensecess 95 
SAP ELAPAUNE ARMAS ees. uhovsd.c teen me reet cementite sd oneeaticaos tens 93 
Seelothe:Seekers: Oem sxte eis Mee ersrcos ernest 93 
Silver lightt...%atics scoot etter hens ostice Maudie ood 25 


e 
Ley lines POO OOOO OOOO OOOO OOO OOOO OOO OOOOOOOO OOO OOOO OOOO OOO OOOO OOOOH 8-9 


DRABC SCHOOIS isso. ss00s.08sss0s.soedsssasscersdsosssast 1-17 
TX VOERUZ AT accents eateries ca enterica eter sts MORSE stay 13-14 


DIVERS: sioeer tis ncas tent e es seg seth osnsssceseveveesacesy L O-Oe> 


VERE es MAAR HIN oh ass ease la la sees abanadaiddasLaoae osdueeySeoo'ed 21-24 
Witte tray Wag eae aise aa. s scawishasiyeiee sb eM cotlansas 25-31 
ehcp ate ie cc ek a8. 0s Fonda varshassoles ndsrnsecbed petbeoe dhotee 18-20 
Wag G'S pecliceeeterctn tosh ssh tortadsssheesitsartonse tris reteeeesees 3 see Spells 
SCHOOIS), Weta aes. saslas a tases wehine Me see Schools, Mage 


Masic i@MS. 33:5. ,.+..2:000sensempareetiaeees ce by 125 


Bloodstone. Dag geries5, hss yal tiene mente ite vegs. 56S sn cas ohoes 145 
Bonding Paitrr:, eiverin. ces veraes. eT cs lcer custo reesenereten 122 
Center piecegrecss. 2..scnenl neers see sees 147-148 
Gerebrall litte. .6 ances: yssursictys ale iatat cass <cth s Res 147 
Crystal Ghul sree ee eats os csemsseasangas ei vowescnssn RARER 119 
Ear thiw Ribbons. cq meeet aoe oss teset i toserscusbiohios cosas 146 
Enchanted Amu lets vege sertereostt.ses.v. hast barWorerGoasigaess 117-118 
Eyespe Nl ehalent iy, Aine ere ttus... tage bai atetogs sists stoeans tee 119 
Fotursliea th Glomeresu5. gh tage cassctssatehy ons seodgelonsntived te snc eee 119 
Gateways Portal loti octeacen vee neonatal me aamwocne tenae 118 
Goat Skimpvlatatlen se Ws cect ch sis sas, poihi cs Sse cgtesseensttdcdeagde 145 
PAasicalE VEN MRO Pes....1s0) 8 cones stay deed. 5 sqeesuoodorsean lorth 119 
Meg aSCOPerercr rut sc toc. umette cue tere ob ier craaenrentes 120-121 
Power Stone Guardian .0.0....esecsessscseseenencscsessseenenssones 122 
POWeRStONES eerie Meee Nn os. eatsansatessecereeee teem 118 
RUC ASIII Greece settee os cote ces Gack enous Tatici none sss Nivea 123 
PME WIC MEG TOONS sanen 2451.5 Yorn seasons, tosovsiosedeeaaseease 120 
DIVE ROMIMMAUAG yas s, LNG ae, 0 1. asst sonld adasangilsssstesensoade 118 
SUaelpOls pial iis wx Seat eh Be as. so 8iaha Moses be astayat 148-149 
TE VOPENCS cer esccsete ks <aoaiessat ree anos ferns -pdoases ovedon 124-125 
True Statbot Bindings, evans a: 20 onl cs. scsoss cessescsseadssns 149 
Wan dvot Bamis Miners. 5. ter ic.elhs-2 asessnsstasesesegesaacouses 148 
Wisin ge limOrs eens sete. o.scgettene voaseSnsnsdsssuyartonbe dies 118-119 


Magical gifts COO OCOO OOOO OOO OOO OOOO DOSED OOOO OOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOS 74-75 


IN CLO IIMIES 1 Ste seperti eee Tear ocings dasa daslfonestarael Moo aieiceesioe’ 75 
GaltmnvAmitiiall Se: Rien ere stestes ici. sce ccecatecsrst ti ctesoccelereteeseds 74 
CAV OKIMMESIS divas. tenet ete Ne osa.c ue ivtsastasmondaientl eed tones res 
Detects POiso masa tccts cestiet cites ees micctrei eres Meeleree 75 
ear Avitalees eee ourer sits scoks cscs mac rteaeeet em erscee not enaat ei 74 
Fleetiofthoot wistese tcc see ment es a sdascarattel coherences 74 


FOLEY ee eee ies cscxselrtnn cs Alaa e ante TD 


CTODIIMESIS’. an pere Meets en Marsch Pehlen ibis nam esireiaes 75 
Greeny Thumbs eek ere ish oesa th scseovhe lon losonpestta de eds 75 
BAST (CUA CAN | aap So) ere aR, SRN ae eR OAM A eT SON Ree MECC ve 
Minuscule Nllusteiiy: seat ters. atan le besetaseiiconiosss-vsscebeedos 75 
MVANIOT Citts ss. assem see. aimee tai | Rte Sid, bak 74-75 
IPNTA 0 ayer nae eR ey PIN facets kee tt yest Or Pore on aOR UO 75 
PEN TOKIFIESIS..,. iscesoickea eter eta sent eoe seve dingo eet ooir cane fig 
SiSeye NUM Ie oem veep eran ie RU ai a eee ey eee 75 
IW CaponiELOnin Ginww. 2. cemenceete conte acs sraetee cet Weiser cos cuh oo 75 


MONStELS .........ccccscccsccsscccscccscccsscssccsssseees LD-208 


MBE S 5 iessasslsis sneha picehaiess) shi 2 Seat ARERR eel, ats. 196-197 
GE Ted hive Fa Reeser. 20s IepreR nos MA Sr 1 ecg eo eS 198-199 
Corpse Amalgant.csarune eee Leica hese ee 200-201 
Greats Beaters fe. cent isc seen es aeemte ratte cata ese Feo 202-203 
Wi iMOPAMIMOL Test wesc tee eae eka sea ages 204-205 
Hed GAMEN EY CLs. sstducbuassvss.nilevi sssss esas MMe textes Ta oats scarab 206-207 
IRS MUGEM bye eeret see. aeste sees ulsasseh te eee Senses eas 208-209 


INTULEAEL OMe teers sco ec se eete ste coekeeeises scons desteese ld 4-138 


PNA UI CeEAUES parte costs sdhotases ss scuaterenat es Mater cashew atieet aeons 137-138 
Gombinin gees cise cass. ot ete ice thes tocen steerer sealants 136 
ETO WaT LA ANI Crake he Se ache cs ON mee Bre in ving 7 136 
1 SSR cp, CS Aa DOR BE RO 135 
HPO Chere rei s <Lusencenssaseslaunsnsves abate bt otvas sduancsdecRear omer tee se aes 136 
INA RUN Ver 21g she, Spe veveheey revo aera er yyy rrniaretin 135, 210 


IMC CLOMMANGCY <.. 05... 00000058050<e46s00steatree tosses k 29-1 OS 


Reet lees SITIES. cavaraasd: sues sctate tines oossntaadtary a danas sotios cee 130-131 
SOOT a iNer pee ae COPR Pees 3 ale, Sate OD a) DARREN 132-133 
Hel eee marr rs, ssc daetay sesso he ees ts ce tee ten Looe te toeta sPeaa tone vk fos 132 


Nonbelievers ............cccccsssssccccessccccsessccceeses DO“ D7 


PLCSUS oo eukhe eases aae eee Oe ne 34-53 


PROLeSSION Ai.;.0; diacumiccaseeaene cece Maagieebeaal id iol aaa 49 
BIMUETHEE 1 Nos ccocateer metus Yo ti assolacghacmturteete me tetas atone 50-51 
OTe Fan lcstetaner seoee ce ease aot tesy es Seok see Invocations, Priest 
BN OLS VP visemes tins smaMerasss 3 Nactesacvoaeaceudivonsdusate see Deities 


Rituals ...........0000. 102-104, 132-133, 142-144 


HA itm ate PATI Open reat eect sess st ecescrssdassonccésdetecesussshsos 103 
Beacon of the Wranaturale. soa vctesssnesssssvssesessonsdecsaecesseons 103 
CXC ATG Sy TICES EG aes, ACRE reson onossesdnonpannsenegtondesonsoses 132 
Controlled/Sumim Omi’ 2.00560. 0.s. cose scssasadosedorsnadesvbbves 142-143 
Gr eaterGrv sta Skully a. discs. costhancstiynticbeer. nce eeeans ov senbnce’ 102 
Greate Plagerok POW ere 1.5 baits .cks.5uisiussennyassisaestoncbsoa loo Sorobers 105 
Create SOUPBC ACO f5.c5...scgosksevessonoss nteconetor teen sitarsenoe 132-133 
Enchant Ata let acess. cosas, Ge apheleodt eae eee ee Misv)- hos otees 105 
FOG, OF MS ast Ph Sostatan Aan vasea othe ereetae eis cps.0oe 104. 
Goetia ritwals..couz. coc akeos.Wseue ee ee 142-144. 
Hanmarvyin's, BlueWDreaim eis iste eerseteess esos odes 133 
limbuewlro phiyies.. caret cst citn ete scetagncotess cents 102 
Journeymen Fituaals ..........csesssseseseseevesesees 103-104, 132-133 
Magical’ Guestbooks... 23s.0.3¢sts uso. 94svtosevog-, sat erates 104. 
Master rituals) a5 ees cose sre esti upsets 104, 132-133, 144 
iNNecroimaney Vitiials: seine kee ic5 5908 dono syeoogensn ieee 132-133 
Novice rituals ....25.Us. cae eer ee smensss! 102-103, 142-143 
Reanimate Corpses. cece mtttessctoeetsecasa entries. scseecueiaes 133 
Ritvial Of Binding s.2 7.5. Fy s.scednsesestivngeciasvoncdasee oe yam 144. 
Ritualeof Namaing yo s.ageet aes testis cn ee Mosel cee 143 
Witiga loft iverGoat Skit: tet ese. teonparSbelcunsgemates Marcos 146 
UV LOMAN CV cen. sere Sacco tee tts ses sles tenes cos ssbect Peesaszcnes stores 103 
Uncontrolled SumMoning..............c..scscssesssoosessossovsveovenees 142 
Wager er's/Pendanition i. a lecsntirees thi + senccssaeeaseatamen 103 


DS DGIIS sageccisccesucitocsssccocsensessssesevedecesesseeesO 1-90, Lam 


PSITMEPAS SEX Ela CULO Mp sere sees cite tobe is cee Sasscassfeetesstoteacte Ome 90 
Bev Ves Pelee sty ames ssay as Mrerhss Wh sasacelets.scousobodvieos toss 83-84, 87, 89 
Mulchiemicgl RECOVERY. Sivsass ioc ssescsacosesglacdelssactesstictsiteredia steed 82 
AUO Ra StB re abhi neces occa atiere een ee cee cate ec beseesete ine 84 
Ball Wightningss ere wen Meat ee en ec italoan ct aub ve 87 
BekkerissDarks Mirra terres. etereemctres ct retececcsocekeresendhtccseess 89 
Bekker’siRockslide stirs sans tert cas occa ethene acaoelte aos 86 
Blazerot thes corathyiee techs cc eehectias, acces elevate ee 90 
Blerinishentirre eters Picton, ih deb iess Ratt ee. sstie een 82 
Breathyotebinest seem cenrer et ees... cscs otevgscccuscstoratemes cdot 84 
YON Wi Visa OWaresrte neta a iat anl cle cy oeetssair stnswts ts seats oie 83 
(Siig Va Gal DYoXoy ees Hr Meche aR Re eS eee 87 
CON Ke led ene ea ck ae. a Se RS a ee ee 85 


Crythates. career Me Nn. Joc, so cisdas odvonssha mee Mea ohare? 83 
Crystal) Stasis iam coum emmetcun piv ta tuseds srcceereessustoasOovvents 89 
De lee) Of As Ramee te Wer nte rats Sidas abs sn lh edlsdbangvonenstoleven 90 
Detects Levilkinencrree mist nt lrcsitci cl tescencsteeecesast 82 
Disrupt Focus ss weme ies mteeen tira nectar hctah ccatvnstanes, 85 
Dormyn's: Chambery: td yas .cb miosis sseatnne ts cen oaaling tase 85 
ID THbU a bea kept aest Aerie a bere a cceaes see Invocations, Druid 
Dust, Coatine a0) eee eee teen aetna earns cutee suse es 83 
Barth spells x. ‘iste ieee ete Maesians neers saeketionds 83, 86, 89 
Earthen Pillar ea. wa: aateneyetan Gaara eta ips rets ct sks essa 83 
Elgar's Bastion’ :)5...% cima: euletuscRaliealcaessonsescebs 86 
EM POWs ucts oh enemas rere eR Tea sso 5e0 sugseseassits 85 
Essence of POtiom an. .:.cacv tes nec emer e teas nests eeameeans sa 88 
Fergus Demise: str asnescretenate tetas ecee teen esse cheats 82 
HAVE SELIG te aks cokes eacaes i lesar Mahe Mee ei up toa 84, 87, 90 
(GIRVAN SS poy ere OD RIEL DE I ln Gi Pe ET 89 
Piamanat thie /Tenapest xi insiasss loi rmeenecrtastssfocrssvsheeWivoseosens cael 89 
PPAGEELES SE INE 2-0 cosh jars sariesolretaMpenmed care Seated tes \sacassvitidesekn 84 
BA AEG UG) ssi... seed bos for MARR does INT nose feck coPiaaoveedevoesiadien 82 
TV ASKIN CH Meer r nsssccssomectts Mer cumesiee ess: vot.s0s tresdoosasote.ftostecoeserds 88 
Brag St lea iss sete Seay ca satis tases sion ta adg shou vass tc eonoa oan ba camer 87 
JAVECIS SWATHS. hats. srs ee tke eh ene ae ee ee eee 86 
FOuUTTIGVINeMs Pell ssa) educcoumae sseaacin cosas 85-88, 132 
MERLE EOE eatesc ctsnosses gityustues da souaon odors vat scdtesuabeue et Auehiantease 83 
MBI ATM SMEG He, Jo. capeetotessssagcet ors iba foots sees Seasgate Brass teats eee eeaaes 90 


Nap ESSE OTE Stes srovedortecs cesses sn tecdseia erst wetaibs a cesetes haere 87 


Ma pic Cree mitment rire ccincccccsses scutes surstaere (aceokescheottscsd 82 
Mia rnb 1G) cleremmmencrtse att het. cance sects. te.thessaVoeessosseanastdvtsaosate 84. 
Master spelllcee wrcaientert tutes. cs0scstiasssocvisss tierconoe 89-90, 132 
Mike digiellstras. sacs, visas utaictsi0) ,s720ssussionesasn 82-83, 85-86, 89 
Neerommancy, Spel lS x cieeitrists lactase stuotanensSecse onlandeli ose stonnee 132 
Nowice:spollestraten a nists ecwisiisausniadess aise Macses 82-84. 
RrieSt ee eeeec ernst i. cola tesestsserts see Invocations, Priest 
Re Ope miler yt. tsisctesersiccviatcnse ss ee tte teen vines tea oetos 83 
Rustime Seine, oat eves neta wirituser ote eee toter Moots stt 88 
Savellasvtethadis cc te.. css een Cre eis eess sess 83 
Shapes arty se ccs.cihitiassvecoossssodiivonseea mee mene met ceo eiiesesess eas 89 
Shar peniSenses senuets,hicc es wena amen east ides. seelbovs 83 
Slip SURCAMA: asst: racemes ssteevaessat. Memenas sel aes does svedvnapio's 84. 
Sunith’s Mowelipetity.. sohsdscetn. emisds oven. s2suesee sk eens ale 87 
S@bbe mar thier. yi, crises aeeAssonsgicutes,vetesas olde ene soem 83 
Spectral Methereweern Ae heli leassloaarteensatiteectyaos aaa ee 85 
Steal Spell svt me meemehlnlacsrsel eos tiertlova aanelee 89 
Stari of Souls. sister ee mee ress. Jostens Piaaseaade aed 132 
Touelwot Lightning .te'e mace tears. me csvvestse.steetieucn ..hs0e.tnees ee 87 
Trap Or tals ee al bBincnsgedesibss vena ytellctesscseu tee assoc mance 86 
Valvila’s Sin@ke Fv. tis sistance sks. tins ncgta sibs suid ash scevisean haere canes 84. 
Water) Clem ts t sricvaceeewes eee etee auanel aasbnleuh ca sthatoest cok veneers 84 
NEA aby a) |e olen ep SN ONRION I Ae iy Daven 84, 88, 90 
Web: Of Ices aretha totes cio teenes loa, Wisbusisl ae esl cee 84. 


Witcher signs, advanced ............0cceeccvereeeeo LOL 


Book of Tales, an adventure compendium 


ae del 
Frith) new options for playersand gamemasters. 
ud . = ZBI Lis 10/7) 


Roleplaying in woah dangerous world of The Witcher 


Dark Fantasy in the 
Bestselling World of the Witcher! 
a Talsorian 
i rai, - Games 


Fcc AAX x ry ~ , 
chee acelin) NAT . = CD PROJEKT RED* 
Core Rulebook GM Screen Bestiary - 


Eyberpuik 


The Classic Roleplaying Game of the Dark Future 


/ 


sit 
yt 
: 

We jh 


¥) 
Ny 


mee aming sfore. 


ee Sarors pte SS 


iy Yat 
Ard 
4 
1 


It’s said 
that magic is 
equal parts art, chaos, and 
science. That it’s a blessing, a curse, 
and progress itself. Through the notes 
of escaped Nilfgaardian Director of 
Magic, Glynnis var Treharne, you'll put 
that saying to the test, uncovering the 
secrets of the primal forces of magic. 
How will you use this primordial 
chaos, and how will it change you? 


A Tome of Chaos is a supplement for 
the Witcher TRPG which gives you a 
number of new spells, invocations, 
rituals, and hexes as well as a collection 
of magic items, dark rituals, and 
magical miscellanea to take your game 
to new heights. 


Talsorian 
Games 


| 9 


Featuring 


@ New Magic: 
Explore a library of new magic includ- 
ing: spells, invocations, rituals, hexes, signs, runes, 
glyphs, elixirs, and magic items. 


@ Explore the Dark Arts: Bend dark forces to your will with 
rules for summoning the spirits of the dead, making deals 
with demons, and creating mutant monstrosities. 


® Priests, Druids, & the Gifted: Expand the boundaries of 
magic at your gaming table with the separate and expanded 
Priest and Druid Professions and new rules for granting 
mundane characters minor magical talents. 


@ And More: Learn how magic is taught across the 
Continent, follow the stories of Director Var Treharne, and 
experience the dangers of Goetia in a gripping adventure. 


$35. 
ISBN 978~-1-950911-22-6 


CD PROJEKT RED* 


oo 
il 53500> 
11226 | 


