1

2 Writers Cody Pondsmith Cover Anna Podedworna Illustration Nemanja Stankovic Lorenzo Mastroianni Bogna Gawrońska Damian Bajowski Monika Zawistowska Grafit Studio Ilker Serdar Yildiz Marek Madej Bartłomiej Gaweł Anna Podedworna Katarzyna Redesiuk Layout & Design Cody Pondsmith Typography Cody Pondsmith Editing J Gray Terri Hayes Carol Darnell Playtesters J Gray James Hutt Special Thanks To CDPR: Jan Rosner Joanna Wieliczko Marcin Batylda Marcin Blacha Michał Nowakowski Przemysław Juszczyk Monika Janowska Cast & Crew PRODUCT: WI11011 ISBN: 978-1-950911-00-4 © R.Talsorian Games, Inc., 2019 P.O.Box 82922, Kenmore, WA USA 98028 THE WITCHER® is a registered trademark of CD PROJEKT S.A. THE WITCHER game © CD PROJEKT S. A. All rights reserved. THE WITCHER game is based on the prose of Andrzej Sapkowski. PRINTED IN GERMANY

3 Table of Contents People of the Continent .............4 Artisan.................................................. 5 Criminal ............................................... 5 Entertainer........................................... 6 Laborer................................................. 6 Merchant.............................................. 7 Scholar.................................................. 7 Halfling Race ...............................9 Noble Profession...................... 10 Noble Skill Tree ................................ 11 Estate Rules........................................ 12 Rodolf’s Wagon........................ 14 Item Descriptions ............................. 15

4 People of the Continent Across the Continent people are living their lives day-to-day. While your players may be battling their way across the frontline, making shady deals with underworld figures, and crafting complex magical rituals, these folks are just trying to get by. For every daring, roguishly handsome mercenary, there are a thousand average folk sewing boots, prescribing herbal remedies, and collecting taxes. As your players travel they will—no doubt—encounter leagues of “everymen” to gather information from, help, or swindle. Although many of these encounters can be glossed over with a single die roll against a DC, you may discover your players have taken a shine to an NPC and want to flesh that character out so they can take a bigger role in the game. That is where this booklet comes in: with some basic guidelines for crafting Everyman NPCs and a small roster of ready-made Everymen to use in your game. Crafting NPCs The Witcher TRPG assumes that players are creating characters who are already adventuring and have surpassed the average person’s skill set. When you set out to build an Everyman NPC you build them differently than PCs, using the following guidelines. • Everyman NPCs don’t need to go through the Lifepath. • Some highly trained Everyman NPCs can have Professions but most do not. • Everyman NPCs with a Profession can only have ranks in their Defining Skill and never in skills from their Profession’s Skill Tree. • Everyman NPCs have 30 points to spend on statistics. They do not have the LUCK Statistic. • Everyman NPCs with a profession spend 44 points on their Profession Skills, including their Defining Skill. • Everyman NPCs without a Profession spend 44 points on a selection of skills determined by the GM. • Everyman NPCs cannot purchase Pick-Up Skills. • All other aspects of character generation are the same. The people present in this booklet are just average, everyday folk you might run across while traveling the Continent. The majority of them live peaceful lives and rarely engage in combat or intrigue. They aren’t paragons of their profession or “main characters” in your story, meaning they won’t be particularly impressive compared to seasoned Player Characters. General People No new Witchers are being made, so every Witcher is assumed to be a seasoned character. Therefore, Witchers are never Everymen. Every Witcher is unique and should be created with the standard character creation method as outlined in the core rulebook. Witchers Everyman NPCs gain the same racial abilities as other members of their race. These racial abilities and modifiers are not factored into the Everyman NPCs presented in Lords & Lands. The races of the NPCs are up the GM. Races To streamline the use of the Everyman NPCs presented in this section, their skills are represented as “Skill Bases”, meaning that the appropriate Statistic has already been added to the skill value. Skill Bases

5 Artisans Skill Bases Brawling 6 Business 5 Crafting or Alchemy 15 Courage 5 Endurance 10 Patch Job 9 Persuasion 5 Physique 9 Resist Coercion 6 Wilderness Survival 7 INT 4 REF 3 DEX 4 BODY 5 SPD 2 EMP 3 CRA 6 WILL 3 Armor None Inventory Mundane Items (1d6) Crowns (3d6) STUN 4 RUN 6 LEAP 1 STA 20 ENC 50 REC 4 HP 20 VIGOR 0 Known a number of artisans in my time. Heh, come in all shapes and sizes. Got your finesmiths with their precise little tools, to your blacksmiths with their great hammers, all the way down to your cheese makers in their drafty basements. Fine folk, most of ‘em! If ya need someone to make ya just about anythin’, these are the folks to go to. Just be careful around an Alchemist. Finicky folk if ya ask me. Heh, last time I visited one I got a face fulla smoke! Probably shouldn’ta bumped the poor lad. —Rodolf Kazmer Weapons Dagger Artisan’s Shop An artisan works out of a workshop. This workshop has all the tools required for crafting items or creating alchemical supplies based on the type of artisan. This shop also holds ten Novice or Journeyman recipes. Criminals Skill Bases Athletics 11 Awareness 6 Deceit 5 Intimidate 7 Pick Locks 10 Practiced Paranoia 7 Sleight of Hand 9 Small Blades 12 Stealth 12 Streetwise 6 INT 3 REF 6 DEX 5 BODY 3 SPD 5 EMP 2 CRA 3 WILL 3 Armor None STUN 3 RUN 15 LEAP 3 STA 15 ENC 30 REC 3 HP 15 VIGOR 0 Low-life scoundrels are all over the place. Ya can’t walk down the block without trippin’ over ‘em in some cities. Heh, can’t be too hard on ‘em I guess. I’ve run with crowds who probably belonged in jail—every one of ‘em. But that’s the life ya gotta live when you’re smugglin’ goods. Good honest folk aren’t gonna help. Heh, this one fella I knew— dwarf named Domonkos—used to steal the frames off paintin’s. Mad bastard just couldn’t see the value in art. Saw plenty of value in a gilded frame though. —Rodolf Kazmer Weapons Stiletto Criminal Types Criminals come in many shapes and sizes. Choose one: • Thieves: Thieves have two secret pockets and a bonus +3 Sleight of Hand. • Thugs: Thugs have a bonus Melee skill of 5 and a mace. • Charlatans: Charlatans have a bonus Forgery skill of 5 and a forgery kit. Inventory Thieves’ Tools & Mundane Items (2d6) Crowns (3d10)

6 Laborers Skill Bases Athletics 12 Awareness 7 Brawling 8 Courage 7 Endurance 12 Intimidation 6 Physique 14 Resist Coercion 7 Riding 5 Wilderness Survival 6 INT 3 REF 4 DEX 4 BODY 6 SPD 3 EMP 3 CRA 3 WILL 4 Armor None STUN 5 RUN 9 LEAP 1 STA 25 ENC 60 REC 5 HP 25 VIGOR 0 Weapons Hand Axe Average folk’re just tryin’ to make their way in the world. Shame they always wind up caught up in the plots of nobles and empires. Heh, half the folk I meet spend their day unloadin’ ships, haulin’ wood, or buildin’ buildin’s stone by stone. Not the kinda life I envy but hey, keeps ya eatin’. Spent a month haulin’ stone in Mahakam after the second war. Thought I’d go back to my roots. Heh, couldn’t stand it. Folk were great though! Somethin’ about workin’ together on a project bigger than yourself humbles a soul. —Rodolf Kazmer Laborer’s Guild Laborers often work together in large groups and band together when threatened. A laborer under attack must make a Courage check, DC:12. Success means they stand and fight. If they fail, they either run or call for help, summoning 1d6 other laborers. Entertainers Skill Bases Busking 12 Charisma 12 Deceit 11 Fine Arts 13 Human Perception 10 Performance 13 Persuasion 10 Seduction 12 Social Etiquette 8 Streetwise 7 INT 4 REF 3 DEX 4 BODY 2 SPD 4 EMP 7 CRA 2 WILL 4 Armor None STUN 3 RUN 12 LEAP 2 STA 15 ENC 20 REC 3 HP 15 VIGOR 0 Every time I hit a new town I like to spend the first night in a tavern. Heh, if I got the time to burn. Stout tankard of ale, some sausage, and bread! Best meal on earth if ya’ve just been eatin’ mushrooms and rabbit for a week! Ya can bet if there’s an entertainer in the tavern they’re gonna make a tidy sum offa me! Heh, love a good performance! Jugglin’ and knife throwin’ are the best though! Course ya can always find a lad or a lady to match yer taste too. World of variety in the leagues of entertainers! —Rodolf Kazmer Weapons None Entertainer’s Performance Entertainers come in many shapes and sizes. Choose one: • Musicians: Musicians carry an instrument of their choice. • Writers: Writers carry a writing kit and a journal. • Circusfolk: Circusfolk replace Fine Arts with Athletics. • Prostitutes: Prostitutes carry a makeup kit. Inventory Mundane Items (1d6) Crowns (3d6) Inventory Mundane Items (1d6) Crowns (1d10)

7 Merchants Skill Bases Business 13 Charisma 9 Education 11 Gambling 9 Human Perception 8 Language (Choose 1) 8 Persuasion 11 Resist Coercion 11 Streetwise 10 Well-Traveled 11 INT 6 REF 2 DEX 3 BODY 2 SPD 3 EMP 6 CRA 3 WILL 5 Armor None STUN 3 RUN 9 LEAP 1 STA 15 ENC 20 REC 3 HP 15 VIGOR 0 Weapons Dagger Can’t trust a merchant! They’re all out to swindle ya! Heh, only kiddin’ a’course. But there’s some truth to it. Might wanna keep a level head when you’re in the village market. There’re plenty of merchants just lookin’ to make a profit and get folks the goods they need. But there’re plenty of low-lifes lookin’ to con ya outta the last crown in your purse. Heh, gotta learn to haggle. Ain’t the easiest but ya get used to it quick or ya lose what ya got. Good idea to talk with a merchant if ya need contacts too. —Rodolf Kazmer Merchant’s Shop Merchants always have a collection of goods that they sell (separate from their personal items). The stall or building varies based on the status of the merchant but it always includes: merchant’s tools, a ledger with a writing kit, and at least 3000 crowns of product. Scholars Skill Bases Alchemy 6 Awareness 10 Deduction 13 Education 16 Language (Pick 1) 10 Resist Coercion 11 Social Etiquette 11 Tactics 10 Teaching 14 Wilderness Survival 12 INT 8 REF 2 DEX 2 BODY 2 SPD 2 EMP 4 CRA 5 WILL 5 Armor None STUN 3 RUN 6 LEAP 1 STA 15 ENC 20 REC 3 HP 15 VIGOR 0 Heh, know this scholar by the name of Brandon of Oxenfurt. Fine fella—if ya compare him to cockatrice. Always goin’ on about dates and battles and historic folk. Spent some time ‘round his classes in Oxenfurt and dealt with a lotta scholars. Seems like they get real focused and tend to think of the world based on what they study. Guess ya gotta focus on one thing if you’re gonna get smart about it, heh. Great if ya need some information on a subject or ya need to investigate somethin’. —Rodolf Kazmer Weapons None Scholar’s Subject Most scholars have one or two specific areas of study. A scholar has a number of self-composed tomes they can access that give them a +3 to any two of their Intelligence or Crafting skills (chosen by the GM) if referenced. Inventory Mundane Items (1d6) Crowns (2d10) Inventory Mundane Items (1d10) Crowns (4d10)

8

9 Due to their magic-resistant nature, halflings are unable to channel magic through their bodies and cannot become Mages or Priests. Magic Resistance Interestin’ folk, halflings. Short as a dwarf but not as stocky. Got pointy ears like an elf but they ain’t as “in tune” with nature and whatnot. Heh, if it weren’t for their big hairy feet, I’d say they’re a cross-breed! All kiddin’ aside though, they’re fine folk! Strangest part about a halfling’s the way they sorta repel magic or somethin’. Nobody knows why but halflings are immune to certain magics or somesuch. Lotsa spells and elixirs and whatnot just don’t work on ‘em. Think they came through durin’ the Conjunction so maybe it’s somethin’ to do with their home. These days ya can find halfling’s livin’ in human cities makin’ their way in the background. Don’t really try to hide, they just don’t come up much. Guess since they don’t claim land and they like livin’ among humans, they don’t get harassed as much. –Rodolf Kazmer Nimble Halflings are naturally nimble and dexterous people. Halflings gain an inherent +1 to their Athletics skill. Farmhand Halflings are often drawn to agriculture, thanks to years of tradition and an apparently inborn aptitude at animal husbandry. Halflings gain an inherent +2 to their Wilderness Survival skill and when calming, taming, or controlling animals. Magic Resistant For unknown reasons, halflings are resistant to certain forces of magic. Halflings gain an inherent +5 to their Resist Magic skill and are able to roll Resist Magic to negate the effects of any spell that would affect their mind even if it would not normally be allowed. However, Witcher potions & other magic potions do not positively affect halflings (even if they succeed at the Endurance check). Perks Territory The North Nilfgaard Skellige Dol Blathanna Mahakam Social Standing Tolerated Equal Equal Equal Equal Halflings Halflings are often lumped into the same “Non-Human” category as elves and dwarves. However, unlike elves, who have Dol Blathanna or dwarves who have Mahakam, halflings have no dedicated homeland. Halflings prefer to live in human settlements. When determining your Lifepath, you can choose to come from a human kingdom or the Elderlands. If you come from the Elderlands, you roll 1d10. On an even result, you come from Dol Blathana. On an odd result, you come from Mahakam. Halfling Lifepath Halfling society can be a difficult thing to explain, because they are one of the few non-human races that have never had a unified country. Halflings have lived amongst the other races for centuries, and are well integrated into their adopted societies. They tend to coexist with other races, forming small halfling communities within various cities and making themselves indispensable to the larger society by creating thriving businesses and providing numerous products and services. Notably, halflings are excellent with livestock and excel at trades like milling, bee-keeping, cooking, tailoring, and the like. It’s likely that any halfling you encounter has their hand in an artisan business or has some amount of investment of crowns in the local craftsmen. Of course, not every halfling goes into business and members of their race do act as thieves, Scoia’tael fighters, doctors, and the like. On the whole, however, halflings generally keep to their own and avoid getting involved in other people’s problems. It’s not that a halfling won’t go out of their way to help someone but they’ll usually need a good reason to do so. Largely, halflings have maintained their unsteady place in human society by not causing trouble or making a fuss. Unfortunately, when tensions are high, halflings are often the first to suffer due to their size. Halfling Society Halflings can be mutated, with the Mages’ Mutate Ability. However, due to their magic resistance, halflings cannot be mutated by Blue Mutagens. Mutating Halflings

10 Heh, spent the wars watchin’ nobles make alliances and backstab each other, while the ones that did fight got escorted to the battlefield with the best weapons and armor. Eh, s’pose that’s bein’ too harsh. Not like I haven’t met nobles I liked. Plenty of folk with noble titles and whatnot. Difference is in the ambition. ‘S like men at arms: anybody with a title’s an aristocrat but not every aristocrat’s a noble. Real nobles spend all their time improvin’ their status, winin’ and dinin’ other nobles, and provin’ their valor and whatnot. Heh, some of ‘em use their coin to gather knowledge. Interestin’ folk, always learnin’ new skills, before flittin’ to the next “passion.” Heh, got the money to do it so why not, I guess! These nobles are always lookin’ to impress with all the knowledge they got and far-off items they collect and such. Then ya got your real leaderly types. Heh, the ideal captain for any ship. After all, nobility’s supposed to lead the commoners, right? Rarely see these nobles without a few servants around ‘em, providin’ council, entertainin’ ‘em or what not. Gotta admit, they’re damned charismatic though. Heh, hard to ignore an order from a real dyed-in-the-cloth noble. Lastly, ya got your knights. Ya see, a knight ain’t the same as a man-at-arms. Hard to describe the difference but it’s in the trainin’ and in the head, I think. Knights’re cavaliers not killers. Stalwart sons of bitches, fightin’ for their countries and their houses. Expert in heavy armor and usually the best damned riders I’ve ever seen, heh. –Rodolf Kazmer Noble “Well, national interest calls on one to forge difficult alliances at times. Alliances with Witchers included.” –Morvran Voorhis Gear (Pick 5) Esboda Fashionable clothing Horse Invisible ink Jewelry Journal with a lock Makeup kit Perfume/cologne Secret pocket Writing kit Magical Perks None Vigor 0 Skills Awareness 1 Combat Skill Deceit Education Grooming & Style Human Perception Leadership Persuasion Riding Social Etiquette Defining Skill Notoriety Notoriety Nobility, whether earned by noble deeds or conferred by birth, grants a person a grandeur that must be acknowledged. Peasants may curse a noble’s name and mock them in the safety of their hovels but most dare not insult a noble to their face. A Noble adds their Notoriety value to their Reputation score when in their home country or a country allied with their homeland. If a Noble travels to a kingdom or territory that is actively at war with, or neutral toward their homeland, they gain only half their Notoriety value. Starting Coin 200 crowns x 2d6 Average 1200

11 Noble Skill Tree Notoriety Nobility, whether earned by noble deeds or conferred by birth, grants a person a grandeur that must be acknowledged. Peasants may curse a noble’s name and mock them in the safety of their hovels but most dare not insult a noble to their face. A Noble adds their Notoriety value to their Reputation score when in their home country or a country allied with their homeland. If a Noble travels to a kingdom or territory that is actively at war with or neutral toward their homeland, they gain only half their Notoriety value. Servants Your servants are Everyman NPCs. When you generate your Servants, you can use any combination of the following Everyman NPCs: Artisans, Laborers, Entertainers, or Scholars. Your Servants do not gain I.P. and cannot improve their skills. The Dilettante The Leader The Knight Dabble Command (WILL) Resolute Each time a Noble buys a rank in Dabble, they gain two free skill points to spend. These points must be spent to buy a rank in a skill the Noble has zero ranks in and cannot raise a skill’s value beyond rank one. To buy a Difficult skill at rank 1, the Noble must spend both free points. As an action, a Noble can command a target to perform a specific task on their next turn. If the Noble’s Command check beats a DC equal to the target’s WILLx3, the target gains a bonus to one check involved in this task equal to one-half the Noble’s Command value (minimum 1). A Noble can add their Resolute value to their Courage and Resist Coercion checks. If they succeed a Courage or Resist Coercion check, any ally who witnesses them do so gains a bonus on their own Courage or Resist Coercion check equal to onehalf the Noble’s Resolute value (minimum 1) until the end of the scene. Expert Guise (EMP) Servants Chevalier (EMP) By rolling Expert Guise against a target’s Resist Coercion, the Noble can permanently convince a person of the Noble’s expertise in a specific subject. The target then defers to the Noble and the Noble gains a +3 to Deceit checks against the target when that specific topic is involved. A Noble gains a number of servants equal to half their Servants value (minimum 1). These subjects follow the Noble’s orders to the best of their ability but must be commanded or persuaded to risk their lives. If a servant can no longer serve for any reason, the Noble can request a new one from their household be sent. By taking an hour, a Noble can make a Chevalier check against a mount’s WILLx3 to permanently bond with it. When being ridden by the Noble, the mount’s Control Modifier is raised by half the Noble’s Chevalier value. The Noble can also lower the result of a control loss by half this value. Host (EMP) Estate Armored Buffer (REF) By taking a day and spending an amount of money equal to their Host value times 100, a Noble can arrange a festive gathering. While at this gathering, the Noble gains a +3 to Charisma, Seduction, and Persuasion. Anyone the Noble invites must make a Resist Coercion check against the Noble’s Host check to not attend. A Noble personally owns an estate that consists of a main house, a stable, and a parcel of land. The Noble decides where this estate is located (within reason). The Noble serves as the land’s manager and gains benefit from it. Anyone living on the land is their subject. More details can be found on page 12. If an enemy scores a critical wound on a Noble, the Noble can immediately make an Armored Buffer check against a DC equal to the enemy’s original Attack Check. If the Noble suc- ceeds, they can negate the critical wound by sacrificing the armor in the hit location. The armor suffers 1d10 ablation damage per level of the critical wound to the hit location. Deceiving Experts If the person you are trying to convince of your expertise has more than four points in an appropriate skill, they can add their skill value to their Resist Coercion check. Hosting a Festival A festival is furnished with a full feast, games, and entertainment as appropriate for its function and location. If a Noble wishes, they can voluntarily lower their Host rank when putting on a festival. The event requires less money but the DC to refuse an invitation is based on the lowered Host rank. Armored Buffer Damage If a Noble successfully negates a critical wound with Armored Buffer, they also negate the bonus damage from the critical wound. However, standard weapon damage applies to the Noble after their armor sustains damage.

12 A Noble’s estate is a nice, well-established property furnished with all the luxuries befitting a nobleperson. Its layout can be determined (within reason) by the player but once the layout has been established, only upgrading the estate can change that layout. A Noble’s estate is staffed by a majordomo (Scholar), who manages the home, and a number of servants (Laborers) equal to the Noble’s Estate value times two, who take care of all chores and tend to the Noble. They will not leave the estate nor enter combat for the Noble, unless convinced. Certain additions will add specific servants to your estate. These servants do not count against the total granted by your Estate value. Additions • Barracks: Adding Barracks to your estate not only adds a brick building attached to your estate but also gives you access to ten Guards (use Bandit Stats in the core book). These guards live in the barracks and follow your orders. They will go into combat to defend you or your estate and will report anything strange to you or your majordomo. Their duty is to the estate and they will not leave it to fight elsewhere. If you choose this addition again, you gain five more guards. • Greenhouse: Adding a Greenhouse to your estate gives you access to a number of plant-based Components. When you build your Greenhouse, you can select four Everyday/Common-rarity Components and two Poor-rarity Components that could be grown in a Greenhouse. Every month your Greenhouse generates ten units of each of these. If you find a plant component while away you can return to your estate and cultivate it in your Greenhouse, causing it to provide the same number of units per month. You can cultivate a maximum of ten individual Components in a single Greenhouse. Your Greenhouse is managed by a Gardener with a Base 15 Wilderness Survival. • Hunting Grounds: Adding a Hunting Ground to your estate adds a large area of wilderness within a day’s travel that is stocked with game animals. By spending time hunting in your Hunting Grounds, you can generate beast bones, feathers, and leather (which is cured by your Huntsmaster). For every hour spent hunting, you generate 1d6 units of each component (maximum 3d6). Your Hunting Ground is managed by a Huntsmaster with a Base 15 Wilderness Survival. • Personal Physician: Adding a Personal Physician to your estate gives you access to a physician who will treat you and your guests at no cost. This Physician counts a Scholar with a Healing Hands Base of 15. • Secret Rooms: Each time you add Secret Rooms to your estate you create two hidden rooms and two hidden passages. A hidden passage can connect up to three existing rooms. A DC:16 Awareness check is required to spot the entrances of these secret instalments and each one has a lock that opens with a special key in your possession. You can have this key replicated for free. If someone spots the secret room, they can attempt a DC:20 Pick Lock check to open the entrance. • Security: Adding security to your estate improves the locks on all doors and windows. These locks now have a Pick Lock DC of 18 rather than the standard DC of 15. This does not affect the locks on Secret Rooms or Torture Chambers. Taking this addition a second time raises the Pick Lock DC to 20. • Torture Chamber: Adding a Torture Chamber to your estate creates a subterranean chamber closed off by a DC:18 lock on the outside of the room. The room is furnished with torture devices and five cages locked with DC:18 locks. While using this room, the user gains a +3 to Intimidation but deals 2d6 damage to the target for each attempt. If using Verbal Combat, the Torture Chamber grants a +2 bonus to the benefits gained from torture and torment. The Torture Chamber is maintained by a Torturer with a Base 15 in Intimidation. • Workshop: Adding a Workshop to your estate creates a small building that not only contains all the tools required to perform a craft but also grants a bonus of +2 to any crafting checks made within. When you build your Workshop, you must decide which form of crafting it is dedicated to. Multiple Workshops can be built in your estate, each with their own specialization. As a Noble, your estate can be an amazingly powerful source of resources, power, and information. That being said, all the functions of an estate require you to be physically present on your estate. You may choose to visit your estate often or perhaps push to make your estate the base of operations for your party. Visiting Your Estate Estate A Noble’s estate is located on a large tract of land that holds space for additions. For every point in Estate the Noble has, they can add one of these additions to their estate to gain the associated benefits. Each addition takes a month to build and/or prepare but multiple additions can be made at the same time.

13

14 Name Weight Cost Muzzle .1 8 Plague Mask .1 38 Pocketed Cloak 2.5 60 Vial of Gut Worms .1 89 Rodolf’s Wagon “Roll up! Roll up! Got my hands on a few rarer items and I’m lookin’ ta offload ‘em before I head south! Hope there’re some blue bloods amongst ya ‘cause I got some valuable goods!” –Rodolf Kazmer General Gear General Gear Weapons Name Weight Cost False Coins .1 10 Gilding +.5 100 Jar of Leeches .1 25 Masquerade Mask .1 36 Name Avail. Effect Weight Cost Formulae Berserker’s Brew (Master) R When consumed, a target must make an Endurance check at DC:16. If they fail, they must use their turn to attack the closest person. Each round at the beginning of their turn, the target can attempt another Endurance check DC:16. If they succeed, the frenzy subsides until their next turn, at which point they must make the Endurance check again or fall back into the frenzy. Berseker’s Brew lasts 1d10 rounds. .1 105 DC: 22 Time: 1/2 Hour Cost: 157 Cadaverine Solution (Journeyman) P A slashing or piercing weapon coated in Cadaverine inflicts both the poisoned and nauseated conditions on a target on a successfully damaging attack. Two separate (DC:16) Endurance checks must be made to end both conditions. .1 76 DC: 16 Time: 15 min Cost: 114 Celestine (Journeyman) P Consuming a dose of Celestine causes the target to hallucinate colorful lights and pleasant sounds. This makes focusing difficult and imposes a -2 penalty to Awareness and any other task that requires focus. This condition ends in 2d10 minutes but a DC:14 Endurance check ends the condition early. .1 62 DC: 16 Time: 15 min Cost: 93 Summer Ointment (Novice) C When rubbed on the neck and wrists, Summer Ointment doubles the number of hours you can survive in extreme cold and lowers the penalty to STA from extreme heat to 1/4 your total STA. .1 22 DC: 12 Time: 5 Rounds Cost: 33 Alchemical Items Name Type WA Avail. DMG Rel. Hands RNG Effect Conc. EN Weight Cost Flail P/B -1 P 4d6+2 10 1 N/A Grappling Armor Piercing L 1 2 562 Lamia S -1 R 3d6+1 5 1 N/A Long Reach Grapple Bleed (100%) S 1 .5 600 Mancatcher P +0 P 3d6+3 15 2 N/A Long Reach Grappling N/A 0 3 463 Parrying Dagger S/P +0 C 2d6 10 1 N/A -2 to Parrying Penalty S 1 1 350 Whip S +0 C 1d6+2 5 1 N/A Long Reach Grappling S 0 .5 152

15 Weapons Flail Don’t see many folks wieldin’ flails these days. Heh, big spikey balls on chains sounds like they’d be unwieldy as hell. Then again, last time I saw some bastard wieldin’ a flail he put a dent in a knight’s helm and laid him out for good. Lamia If you’re looking for a real brutal weapon—somethin’ to flay a man alive—ya came to the right place. Lamia’s a long, braided whip with metal barbs that’ll tear the flesh off a man in no time. The ld head of Novigrad’s secret police loved these things. Hear the temple guards still carry ‘em as “badges of office”. Mancatcher Now, the Black Ones got a long history of kidnappin’ folks and sellin’ ‘em deeper in the Empire. Prisoners of war and the like. When those poor folk escape they come after ‘em with these. Mancatcher’s a big, spiky, crescent-shaped hook on the end of a pole. Get it ‘round a person’s neck and ya can stop their fightin’ pretty quick. Parrying Dagger Good side arm, a parryin’ dagger. Sturdier than an everyday knife and they’ve got a fancy handle with a wide guard. Sometimes they’ve even got a knuckle guard to protect yer hand. Whip Ain’t much to say ‘bout a whip. Long, thin cord. Good for motivatin’ workers or incentivizin’ animals. Heh, seen some folks fight with ‘em. Don’t do a great deal of damage but great for grapplin’ weapons and limbs and what not. Alchemical Items Cadaverine Solution Not all fire sure what this one’s made of.... Heh, smells like the grave itself and it’ll turn a grown man’s stomach. Heard if ya coat a blade in this stuff, it’ll get into your opponent’s veins and wreak havoc on ‘em. Pain, internal bleedin’, vomitin’. All sounds pretty bad to me. Celestine Every country’s got their vices and Nilfgaard ain’t immune. This stuff cropped up a while ago in Nazair and now it’s spreadin’. Ingest the stuff and ya start seein’ sparklin’ lights and hearin’ pretty sounds and whatnot. Berserker’s Brew Some folks in Skellige use a mushroom called Mardroeme to whip themselves up into a frenzy. Guess this stuff was some mainland alchemist’s attempt to copy that. Backfired a bit. Heard of more folks using it as a poison. A few drops in some noble’s drink and suddenly their swinging left and right. Heh, hard to recover your reputation after ya put a fork in the Duchess of Attre. Summer Ointment This stuff cropped up down in Mettina, I think. Farmers would rub it on to make the blazin’ hours in the sun more bearable. Turns out the stuff gets ya warm in the winter and keeps ya cool in the summer. General Items False Coins (x100 Crowns) Dangerous to trade in false coins but if yer clever enough or ya got a silver tongue ya can trade in these cheap fakeries like they were real gold. (Requires a DC:15 Awareness/Business check to spot they are fake) Gilding Never seen much utility in plasterin’ your sword or your armor in gold but it looks nice and folk definitely take notice. (Grants a +1 Reputation bonus. A character can only benefit from one such bonus at a time.) Jar of Leeches Ya see these plenty on the front lines. Ugh, wrigglin’ little things they put on ya to suck out poison and infected blood and whatnot. (Leeches grant a +3 bonus to Endurance for removing the Poisoned condition.) Masquerade Mask It’s rare a merchant like me gets to go to a fancy ball. Heh, just stick out like a troll at a weddin’. But I carry a variety of fancy masks for just said occasions. Muzzle Don’t always carry these. Heh, did have to get one for the Witcher I was traveling with though. Crazy bastard managed to wrestle it onto a werewolf down in Angren. (Make a Melee attack to disarm a creature’s Bite attack until it takes an action and removes the muzzle with a DC:16 Sleight of Hand/Physique check.) Plague Mask With Catriona spreadin’ all over ya see a lot more plague doctors these days. Heh, got these masks with long beaks filled with herbs and flowers and such. Supposed to keep the bad air out. (Grants a +3 bonus to Endurance to resist airborne illness, poison, and nausea.) Pocketed Cloak Some folk need more pockets than their clothes can afford. Heh, usually thieves and assassins, mind ya. But this cloak’ll do ya right no matter your profession. (Contains 6 secret pockets placed throughout the cloak.) Vial of Gut Worms This little trick’s started croppin’ up among nobility. Ya pour a vial of gut worm eggs into somebody’s drink and let nature take its course. (After consuming the eggs the target must make a DC:16 Endurance check or be infested by gut worms, which lower their STA by one-quarter and have a 25% chance of causing nausea whenever they eat. The nausea can only be ended by a DC:14 Endurance check. They must be removed with a DC:14 Healing Hands check.) Lamia Difficulty: Master DC: 24 Time: 12 Hours Cost: 937 Investment: 487 Hardened Timber (x1), Hardened Leather (x2), Sharpening Grit (x2), Dark Steel (x2), Tretegor Steel (x2), Oil (x3), Coal (x10) Whip Difficulty: Novice DC: 10 Time: 2 Hours Cost: 228 Investment: 114 Wax (x1), Leather (x4) Flail Difficulty: Journeyman DC: 16 Time: 8 Hours Cost: 843 Investment: 421 Resin (x1), Timber (x1), Drake Oil (x2), Ogre Wax (x1), Sharpening Grit (x2), Iron (x2), Steel (x4) Parrying Dagger Difficulty: Journeyman DC: 16 Time: 4 Hours Cost: 525 Investment: 262 Hardened Timber (x1), Hardened Leather (x2), Ogre Wax (x2), Dark Steel (x1), Steel (x1) Mancatcher Difficulty: Journeyman DC: 16 Time: 8 Hours Cost: 679 Investment: 347 Hardened Timber (x4), Thread (x1), Wax (x2), Leather (x3), Ester Grease (x2), Sharpening Grit (x1), Steel (x3)

16